http://metroid.wikia.com/wiki/Metroid_Wiki
Welcome to Wikitroid!
Wikitroid is a community that aims to create the best resource for Metroid, a series of video games produced by Nintendo.
We are currently editing 3,854 articles and growing.
While we have grown bigger and better over the past few years, we are still in need of help! See below for suggestions on what you can do to help us grow bigger.
All pages can be edited and you are welcome to join us and contribute to this wiki. Everyone is free to create a new page or edit an existing one.
Warning: This wiki contains spoilers. Read at your own risk.


Other Statistics
Want to chat with Metroid fans just like you? Please consider joining the "Official Unofficial" Metroid chat channel created under the collaborative effort of Metroid fansites like Shinesparkers, Metroid Database, Metroid HQ, and Wikitroid! All you have to do is click here!
This day in history

Template:News
Warp Hounds are creatures found in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. Warp Hounds are dangerous foes, thanks to their rapid "warping" ability, in which they are able to teleport from point to point. This feature allows them to ambush enemies in their large numbers to bring them down speedily. Teleporting also makes it hard to focus on one in particular when they hunt in packs, since they can teleport away if Samus's attacks are beginning to damage them too much, landing at an unpredictable place, making them hard to track and evade once they teleport. Their belly area can also be damaged by Bombs. They can be difficult enemies to engage, as they make a habit of teleporting regularly in battle. They can also regurgitate Fuel Gel onto enemies, hindering the foe's movement considerably.
Read more
Wikitroid:Featured articles
About this wiki • New pages • New files • Categories • Wiki tutorial • Help pages
Other languages Español/Spanish • Français/French • Português/Portuguese • Italiano/Italian • Deutsch/German • Svenska/Swedish • Russian/Россию
Live IRC internet chat Connect to Wikitroid chat • Direct IRC connection (advanced) • More Information


