http://metroid.wikia.com/wiki/SR388
"Nearby" Zebes. [2]
20X5 (Federation/Pirates)
—Old Bird
—Chief Hardy
SR388 was a planet that was visited by Samus Aran during Metroid II: Return of Samus and then later on in the very beginning of Metroid Fusion (the rest of the game takes place on the Biologic Space Laboratories research station, which orbited the planet at the time of the game). It is however mentioned numerous times in the series, including in the first Metroid's manual. An asteroid belt is shown to be in close proximity. The place where Samus finds the baby on the planet is also shown in the intro of Super Metroid and in flashback in Metroid: Other M.
Complete Map of SR388 : [3]
Metroid II: Return of Samus
The barren surface of SR388 was notable for its rough, rocky and dry terrain. Underneath SR388's surface was a vast maze of tunnels and lava. Since the planet was once inhabited by the Chozo, it is safe to assume that they created much of the underground complex.
The ancient Chozo's colonies filled portions of the planet's interior, and many had deteriorated into ruins. The race had long since either abandoned SR388 or were wiped out. Also, many robots and drones left by the ancient civilization were still functioning during Samus's mission on the planet; it is unknown what their original purposes were, but these aggressive synthetic beings have seemingly gone rogue since then.
Lava on SR388 blocked off many of the underground caverns and ruins. There were also frequent earthquakes that occurred and when they did, it usually happened in conjunction with the lava level decreasing, often-times exposing new areas of the planet to be explored. These earthquakes coincided with Samus exterminating a certain amount of Metroids; it is possible these lava level lowering tremors were caused by the Queen Metroid in response to Samus's efforts.
The entirety of Metroid II: Return of Samus took place on SR388.
A large explosion engulfed the planet, but the neighboring SR387 was not destroyed.
The Biologic Space Laboratories research station was a space station created out of an asteroid that orbited SR388 in Metroid Fusion. It was created by the Galactic Federation and was the main facility where native creatures to SR388, along with other organisms from various planets and from the Bottle Ship, were brought in and studied. The Galactic Federation took a special interest in the planet after the discovery of Metroids. After Samus had been assigned to eradicate the Metroid species, the Galactic Federation went back to SR388 to collect more samples which would lead them to the discovery of the X Parasite. Eventually, this new find brought them to the station and Samus was forced to change the Biologic Space Laboratories research station's orbit so that it impacted the planet in hopes of not only destroying the X on the station, but also on SR388.
The BSL's Sector 1 (SRX), created to be a perfect replica of SR388's environment, was secretly used by the Galactic Federation to raise Metroids through their natural life-cycle; these specimens were created using the DNA of the only surviving Metroid from the species' extermination on SR388 caused by Samus Aran.
—Samus Aran
The events of Metroid Fusion take place mainly on the Biologic Space Laboratories research station orbiting the planet. The introduction involves landing on the planet for a research mission and Samus contracting the X Parasite. It is noteworthy that an area of the BSL, Sector 1, is a perfect recreation of SR388's environment. At the end of the game, Samus evacuates the X infested station and crashes the complex into the planet below. SR388, the former home of the Metroids, and source of the X infestation, was subsequently destroyed in a fiery explosion.[1]
Map of SR388, Metroid II instruction manual
"In the 'Metroid' manga, it describes that "The Chozo developed the Metroids in order to exterminate the X living on SR-388", but I think it was previously established that "there is a high probability that the Metroid destroyed the civilization on SR-388." I think it was the X that really destroyed SR-388."
Yoshio Sakamoto: "I think SR-388's civilization was destroyed and the Chozo left for Zebes after the Metroids were released into the wild (became feral). The Galactic Federation, not knowing the reason why the Metroids were developed, requested Samus to clean them up ("Metroid II"). The result of Samus exterminating the Metroids was that the propagation of the X could permit the SR-388 ecosystem to be destroyed ("Metroid Fusion")." [4]
There were a variety of creatures on SR388, the most well-known being Metroids. There were also several mechanical creatures the Chozo left behind still known to have functioned.
Earliest known visual depiction of the planet in the Nintendo Comics System story, The Coming of a Hero.
Biologic Space Laboratories research station
Destruction of SR388.
Native Inhabitants:
Introduced:
Chozo Robots:
Metroid: Other M
Metroid Fusion
TV Commercial :60 Spot
Note: Each area is named in most official walkthroughs of the game, such as in Nintendo Power. They are not named ingame.
Phase 1 is the surface area of SR388, where Samus' Gunship lands, and the first Alpha Metroid is fought.
Phase 2 contains 4 Alpha Metroids.
Phase 3 contains 6 Alpha Metroids, 2 Gamma Metroids and the optional miniboss Arachnus.
Phase 4 contains 1 Alpha Metroid and 8 Gamma Metroids.
Phase 5 contains 1 Gamma Metroid.
Phase 6 contains 1 Alpha Metroid and 1 Gamma Metroid.
Phase 7 contains 4 Alpha Metroids and the only 3 Zeta Metroids in the game.
Phase 8 contains 1 Alpha Metroid and 4 Omega Metroids.
Phase 9 is the final area of SR388, containing the Queen Metroid itself, 8 normal Metroids, and the Infant Metroid known as the Baby, which Samus brings back to Ceres Space Colony.
Metroid II Commercial.

a.k.a. Planet SN-883 or Urtraghus ("large booty")

