http://metroid.wikia.com/wiki/Metroid_Prime_3:_Corruption
Metroid Prime 3: Corruption (メトロイドプライム3 コラプション, Metroido Puraimu Surī Korapushon?) is a video game developed for the Wii by Retro Studios and published by Nintendo. It is the 9th game in the Metroid series and the third and final main installment in the Prime trilogy, excluding Metroid Prime Hunters and Metroid Prime Pinball. The game takes place six months after the events of Metroid Prime 2: Echoes and introduces a new control system based on the Wii Remote and Nunchuk. It was released in North America on August 27, 2007[1] and sold in stores on August 28.[2] It was released in Europe on October 26, 2007.[3] Nintendo released a Metroid Prime 3 Preview channel to North American Wii owners via the Wii Shop Channel on August 10, 2007[1] and to European Wii Owners on 15 October 2007.
Metroid Prime 3: Corruption is a 3D first-person adventure. Utilizing the Wii Remote and Nunchuk, the player can point Samus Aran's Arm Cannon with the Wii Remote pointer and use the Grappling Beam by moving the Nunchuk. The player can choose whether to use the A button or B trigger for firing, with the remaining button used to jump.
The Command Visor was a new feature introduced to the series which allowed Samus to interact with her Gunship remotely, to remove obstacles and dock it at suitable Landing Sites.
Corruption is the second Metroid game (the first being Metroid Prime Hunters) to involve any in-game use of Samus' gunship for anything other than saving. With the aforementioned Command Visor, Samus can call in her ship for an air strike, carry around large objects with the ship's grapple beam, or have it land in a more convenient spot. In addition, Samus can enter her ship to travel to various areas on the planet, or even travel to entirely different planets altogether, such as Norion and Bryyo, among others.
A Pirate Trooper entering Hypermode. Samus and enemies can enter this Phazon-charged state in the game to dramatically increase their attack power and stamina. Utilizing Hypermode is essential to defeat some of the creatures in the game.
In the game, Samus obtains a new suit to handle her Phazon corruption named the Phazon Enhancement Device (PED).[7] A new feature that makes use of Wii Remote functionality allows the player to lock on and strafe around an enemy while simultaneously firing anywhere on screen. (This is called Lock on/ Free aim.)[8] This can be changed in the options so that players can choose the previous method of locking on targets. The Morph Ball also returns, along with the Spring Ball, which can be used by flicking the Wii Remote up.[9] According to Retro Studios, the more intuitive control causes Corruption to be less difficult and faster-paced than Metroid Prime 2: Echoes. Scanning has also become easier to perform.[10] Additionally, a new checkpoint system allows players to restart immediately at certain points in the game between save stations, a feature not implemented in the series previously.
Nintendo announced that there would be no online play in Corruption.[11] The game instead introduces a system that rewards players with tokens for completing various achievements. The tokens can be used to purchase unlockable items or sent to friends via the WiiConnect24 service.[12] Gamers can also take screenshots within the game and send them online.[13]
The G.F.S. Olympus, the first area explored in Corruption.
The Space Pirates board the Olympus.
Dark Samus leads the attack on Norion.
Samus confronts the corrupted Rundas in Bryyo Fire.
Samus destroys Bryyo's Leviathan Core.
Ghor challenges Samus.
Samus travels to the Space Pirate Homeworld.
Omega Ridley, the final Core Guardian.
The Federation Fleet fly into the Wormhole to Phaaze, the source of all Phazon.
Samus fights the corrupted Aurora Unit.
Sylux's Gunship.
The events of Metroid II: Return of Samus follow.
The game, when shown at E3 2006, looked similar in appearance to Metroid Prime 2: Echoes; however, according to Retro Studios, it would have a much more finished look when the game is complete. It was also announced Corruption will have much larger environments than in Echoes and would be targeted to run at 60 frames per second in the finalized version.[10] The developers also indicated interest in using the WiiConnect24 feature to provide additional content.[10]
Metroid Prime 3: Corruption was the first game in the Metroid series in which the characters utilize full voice acting, though previous games in the series used limited voice acting. However, Samus remains silent for the game as in previous titles. The recently released Metroid: Other M is the first Metroid game to give Samus a speaking role.
Nintendo of America President Reggie Fils-Aime stated in a 2007 interview that the game was "not going to ship by June"[15] and set it at a summer 2007 release date at the earliest. Later he hinted, "when we release it, it will be perfect. And if that's a little later than folks would have liked, I'm hoping they're going to be happy." [16] Some of the first gameplay footage to be shown of the game was seen at Nintendo's Media Release at E3 2006 and it was confirmed by Retro Studios that Corruption will be the last game in the Prime trilogy. Nintendo illustrated how Corruption will take advantage of the special abilities of the Wii Remote as demonstrated by a version of Metroid Prime 2: Echoes, modified for the Wii, shown at the Tokyo Game Show in 2005.
In late April, 2007, IGN editor Matt Casamassina revealed that the game would be shown in detail during May of that year. He later reported that this event would take place the week of May 20. The publication also announced that the title will be released on August 20, 2007 in the United States.[17] Nintendo of America later announced to have moved the release date to August 27, 2007.[1][18] Nintendo later announced an "in stores" date of August 28.[2] A release in Europe was planned for October 26.[3]
At the Media Summit held by Nintendo during the week of May 21, 2007, Reggie Fils-Aime noted about Corruption compared to the rest of the franchise that players have "never played it this way before". He also noted that Nintendo employees who had seen the game in action claimed that it "will reinvent the control scheme for a first-person shooter", and that the game is the closest a console title can get to PC control, breaking through the lens of how the game is played.[19] IGN commented on an updated version of the game being played at E3, saying that it "plays better than any first-person console game ever."[20]
Promotional artwork
Nintendo had initially been criticized for an apparent lack of promotion and marketing for Corruption. IGN compared the minimal hype for the title to the large amount for the original Metroid Prime, which was marketed with its own live action advertisement. The publication assumed that Nintendo's recent actions were due to the company's new focus on casual game styles on their console and relatively low sales of Echoes. When questioned on this, Nintendo of America replied, "Nintendo fans will be surprised by the quantity and quality of Metroid Prime 3: Corruption information that becomes available before the game launches on Aug. 27. Your patience will be rewarded (or Corrupted)."[21]
Following this promise, Nintendo released the Metroid Prime 3 Preview Channel on August 10, 2007 in North America. This channel, available as a free download via the Wii Shop Channel, allows Wii owners to view preview videos of the game. These include previously unannounced details the game's plot and battle sequences from within the game. The channel also enables the user to view promotional artwork by moving the Wii Remote pointer across the screen.[1]
Starting with the Preview channel, Nintendo launched a "month of Metroid" in North America. It included announcements of additional videos that would become available as well as a Virtual Console download of Metroid for the NES on August 13. This would be followed by Super Metroid for the SNES available for download on August 20 and the release of Corruption one week thereafter.[1] Matt Casamassina stated that his critique of the marketing behind the game still stands, since it is only effective for the percentage of Wii owners who download the free channel.[22]
Nintendo Power gave Corruption a perfect 10/10 rating. The game is one of the few to achieve this perfect score, following Resident Evil 4 in January 2005 and preceding Super Smash Bros. Brawl the following month. IGN awarded the game a 9.5 out of 10. The review noted that it was beautifully designed and is currently the best game for the Wii. Despite citing that the game is similar to the previous games therefore lowering its score by a small margin, IGN did conclude that it is the best game in the Prime trilogy.[23]
Corruption scored a 9.6 out of 10 in a Gametrailers.com video review. The reviewer praised the more user-friendly and action-packed nature of the game compared to Metroid Prime and Echoes. The site also praised the superior motion-sensitive controls, stating, "After playing Metroid Prime 3 you'll never want to play a shooter with dual analog controls again, it's that good." They further added that those elements make Corruption far superior to the original Metroid Prime.[24]
1UP.com gave the game a 9 out of 10. The review highlighted the controls and said the graphics were "some of the best visuals in gaming, period".[25] GameSpot, who gave the game 8.5 out of 10, stated the game possessed enjoyable puzzles, boss battles, atmospheric levels and smooth gameplay. They also stated some contextual actions do not work well and that the controls took away some of the game's difficulty. Furthermore, they stated the game was not very different from the earlier installments in the series.[28]
Metroid Prime Trilogy was announced on May 22, 2009 for release in North America on August 24 of the same year for $49.99. The disc includes Metroid Prime, Metroid Prime 2: Echoes, and Metroid Prime 3: Corruption with Wii controls, as well as new content, menus, and unlockable media. Certain changes made to the PAL version of Corruption (such as replacing Admiral Dane's "Damn!" with "No!") are placed in the Trilogy version as well.
For all artwork for the game, see Metroid Prime 3: Corruption's gallery


