http://metroid.wikia.com/wiki/Pirate_Homeworld
The Pirate Homeworld is a planet visited by Samus Aran in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption. Originally thought to be the birthplace of all existing Space Pirates, the Metroid Prime Trilogy art booklet stated that it is one of the Space Pirate homeworlds. Though the planet is effectively unnamed in the other versions of Corruption, the Japanese version and unused text suggests the planet is named Urtraghus by the Space Pirates and Planet SN-883 by the Galactic Federation.
Complete Map of the Pirate Homeworld : [1]
The Pirate Homeworld is plagued by a steady stream of Acid Rain, harming any creature without proper protection. It is unique as it features a Transit system, connecting areas for convenience to travellers on foot. The planet was the first target chosen by Dark Samus to impact a Leviathan onto after taking control of Phaaze with Aurora Unit 313. Space Pirate Data insinuates this occurred long before Bryyo and Elysia were impacted. Thus, the Phazon corruption seen on the Homeworld is more advanced than the latter planets, containing many immense Phazon growths on its surface. The Space Pirates' willing interactions with the Seed are likely to have contributed to the corruption as well. The Homeworld was also protected by a gigantic shield, which Samus had to deactivate in order for the Galactic Federation's assault to commence. When the Leviathan was destroyed, the planet's corruption was stopped.
The planet includes the Command Center, a Research Facility, a Mining Site and the Pirate Homeworld Leviathan. In the Command Courtyard, there are three doors in one room that cannot be opened. It is likely that these doors lead to the Pirate's living quarters. Various large tunnels are present too, possibly allowing Pirate Cargo Drones access to the rest of the base. Samus was able to navigate these tunnels using her Gunship, allowing her to move between the sections of the facility quickly and undetected.
Command
Research
Mines
While the planet's most abundant life-forms are Space Pirates, Phazon Metroids and a few other bioforms dwell on the planet as well, such as Shriekbats and Scritters, who thrive in the sheltered areas throughout the Space Pirate complexes, despite the inhospitable weather conditions. Another species that may originate here are the Korakk Beasts. A possible plant that may have grown on the planet is the highly toxic Badger Glove, since it and the pirates are stated as having alkaloid in their systems. A number of mechanical creatures also reside on the planet, like the Puffer Mines which have been cybernetically enhanced to survive the rough conditions.
A number of deceased wildlife can be found and scanned in various places where Pirate experiments have gone wrong, such as in the Scrapvault, where one such example has been woven into the Pirate structure.
The Bounty Hunter Gandrayda also makes an appearance here in a boss battle. The Leviathan on the planet is guarded by Omega Ridley, an enhanced and revived version of Meta Ridley corrupted by Phazon.
Below is a full list of known inhabitants, including creatures, Pirates, and mechanoids.
Until recently, Urtraghus was listed as planet SN-883, an inconspicuous world far from the boundaries of Federation space. We now know that a large armed force of space pirates is stationed there. The pirates call this planet Urtraghus, meaning "Large Booty". First scans were blocked by sophisticated jamming technology. We are currently awaiting a report from GF agents who were deployed in this sector."
[1]
Non-canon warning: Non-canonical information ends here.

Skyway Access • Transit Station 1104 • Transit Station 0203 • Transit Tunnel P68 • Transit Station 0204 • Transit Tunnel P69 • Transit Station 0205 • Transit Tunnel P70 • Transit Station Leviathan
Transit Station 2-B • Leviathan Access Portal
Norion

a.k.a. Planet SN-883 or Urtraghus ("large booty")

