http---metroid.wikia.com-wiki-List_of_Metroid_passwords.txt
North American box art for the original Metroid. The top left corner shows the words "Password Pak", referring to the password system.
The original Metroid released in the US and Europe is the only game in the series to use passwords. The original Metroid game that was released in Japan had save slots. However, the western versions did not have these slots, instead utilizing a password system for restarting. When the player died in the game, they would be given a password to use. After they entered the password, they would be brought back to the starting elevator of the area they were currently in with all of the upgrades acquired in the preceding play. This was the only way to "save" the game. There are obviously multitudes of passwords available in the game; these passwords are some that start the player in special areas, with more upgrades, or with other interesting results.
NOTE: Excluding the "NARPAS SWORD" invincibility code, Samus will always start with only 30 units of energy.
Samus will spawn in Brinstar with the Ice Beam with the Wave Beam sprite, all upgrades, armor, infinite Missiles (255) and unlimited energy—however, this invincibility will only last for 3 playthroughs; after the 3rd playthrough, she will start taking damage again. It is also said that the code stands for North American Release Password, that developers put in as a debug code. This, however, is then said to be unlikely, as the password works with the PAL version.
Samus will spawn suitless in Norfair with 5 (empty) Energy Tanks, 255 Missiles, the Wave Beam, Long Beam, Morph Ball Bombs, Jump Boots, and Screw Attack.
Samus will spawn suited in Tourian with 239 Missiles, all available Energy Tanks, and all upgrades.
Samus will spawn in Tourian with 250 Missiles, all available Energy Tanks, and all upgrades. This code is for those who want to view the best ending of the game, as this code leads to it easily.
As soon as the code is inputted, the game will direct back to the title screen. This is primarily useful for people that accidentally chose the Continue option when they wished to start a new game.
Samus will spawn suitless in Brinstar with about 200 Missiles, 3 available Energy Tanks, and all upgrades excluding the Long Beam, Morph Ball Bombs, Screw Attack, and Varia Suit. With this code, it is not necessary that Samus defeat Kraid or Ridley; the gateway to Tourian is open.
Samus will spawn suitless (pink leotard, brown hair) in Kraid's Lair with 36 Missiles, 1 Energy Tank, the Wave Beam with no Long Beam, the Screw Attack with no High Jump Boots, and Bombs with no Morph Ball. This will also increase the difficulty level and change the ending.
Samus will spawn suitless in Brinstar with no upgrades, Energy Tanks, or Missiles.
This password has different (albeit undesirable) effects depending on whether a console or emulator is used. Entering the password will either cause the game to be directed back to the title screen like the 333333 KKKKKK password, or it will cause a screen-wide graphical glitch that prevents the screen from scrolling to the left or right, trapping a suitless Samus on the first screen of Brinstar.[1] Entering it can also cause the game to crash at a black screen; this is most common on the Nintendo 3DS Virtual Console version, and the player must hold down the power button for 10 seconds until the console is turned off.[2] If an SD card is removed when the game has crashed, the player is prompted to press the home button to return to the HOME Menu.
Samus will spawn suitless in Ridley's Lair with 255 missiles, 6 Energy Tanks, and all items. All doors, except for the boss door to Ridley's room, are opened. Kraid's Statue is shot, and Kraid and Mother Brain are defeated.
Samus will spawn suitless in Norfair with 172 missiles, 5 Energy Tanks with only 30 units of energy, Screw Attack, High Jump Boots, Morphball and Bombs, and the Ice Beam along with the Long Beam. It is not necessary that Samus defeat Kraid or Ridley; the gateway to Tourian is open. The background music will be gone after Samus leaves Norfair, unless she gets a Power-up. Also the Varia Suit will not be on its respective statue, neither Samus will have it in her arsenal.

