http---metroid.wikia.com-wiki-Omega_Metroid.txt
The Omega Metroid is the sixth (often final) stage of a typical Metroid's life cycle. Special Metroids will be able to metamorphose from the Omega stage into a Queen. An Omega Metroid is typically about twice the height of a human; its well-developed exoskeleton exposes only a small area of its softer membrane around its stomach. Like the previous Zeta stage, an Omega Metroid has a leech-like mouth, a bipedal structure, a tail, and four clawed limbs.
Samus Aran encountered several Omega Metroids during her mission to SR388. She would later fight another Omega Metroid created by Galactic Federation experiments on the Biologic Space Laboratories research station. Samus was not initially powerful enough to defeat the Metroid. However, with the unexpected assistance of the SA-X and its Ice Beam ability, the creature was vanquished.
The Omega Metroids are quite slower than their Zeta counterparts, but can deal an enormous amount of damage. They maintain the basic structure of their last forms, and at the same time keep the same weaknesses. Samus must shoot them either in the stomach or back, although a shot to the latter causes more damage.
Omega Metroids typically levitate around while periodically pausing for a moment. Samus can use the Screw Attack to counter a lunge attack from an Omega, and to preserve her health - though this will not cause the Metroid any damage. Omegas also spit deadly acid in battle. Without utilizing their weakness, they require 40 missiles to bring down.
Samus Aran encountered four Omega Metroids during her mission to SR388.
A discarded shell of the Omega Metroid.
Samus encounters a single Omega Metroid on the BSL research station. It was originally an Infant Metroid from the Restricted Laboratory, developed from the cells of the Baby. It escaped during the laboratory's destruction, and went to feed on numerous X Parasites, rapidly molting through its life cycle until reaching the Omega stage as it made its way to the Docking Bays. Samus begins to find discarded membranes in Sector 1 and passes through several rooms, usually filled with X organisms, empty and in ruins.
SA-X and the Omega Metroid battling
Samus enters the Docking Bays, hoping to make a swift escape from the Station. Instead of her ship, however, she finds a giant shell larger than the Baby lying amidst the wreckage of the Docking Bays. As Samus begins to run back, the Omega Metroid bursts through the wall. This specimen is much more powerful than those encountered on SR388, as none of Samus' current weapons seem capable of damaging it, and it reduces her health to critical levels in one swipe. She is left with 1 point of Energy and is unable to move. As the Omega Metroid moves in for the kill, an SA-X, which had recently been defeated by Samus but was able to escape, joins the fight. Ignoring Samus completely (ironically, since one shot would have killed her at this point) and focusing on the greater Metroid threat, the SA-X moves right up to the Omega and shoots at the creature's chest with the Ice Beam, revealing its weak point to her. The SA-X is then hit by the Omega's claws, destroying its mimicry and releasing into the air the Core-X Samus had failed to absorb earlier. She leaps into the X, restoring all her health and returning the Ice Beam to her. This scene is likely a recreation of the ending of Super Metroid, where Samus is saved from death by a former attacker and is given a powerful weapon to use against her enemy.
Omega Metroid animation from Metroid Fusion
The Omega Metroid slowly creeps toward the left side of the docking bay throughout the duration of the battle in an attempt to swipe at Samus with its claws. To avoid this, Samus must use the Ice Beam to drive the creature backwards, similar to the battles with Crocomire, the Kiru Giru and the Desbrachians, and move away before the Omega Metroid can counterattack. If the Metroid manages to connect with a claw swipe, Samus will take heavy damage (but not be reduced to 1 Energy, losing instead 100 Energy, ie. one bar) and be hurled backwards and knocked to her knees, exactly as she was at the beginning of the battle. Samus will stand back up after a few seconds, but since there is a countdown until the BSL collides with SR388 in effect, this is a battle not only against the Omega Metroid but against time as well.
Ultimately, Samus succeeds in driving the creature back to the wall through which it came, and is eventually destroyed. Samus's ship returns to the bay, allowing her to leave the station with moments to spare.
In Metroid II, the Omega Metroids are about 150% the size of Samus. In Fusion they are much larger, although this is likely due to the screen size and resolution difference between the Game Boy and Game Boy Advance, since they are mentioned to be "massive" in M2's manual. In Metroid II, Omega Metroids are capable of levitation and can fire plasma projectiles from their mouths, the latter of which causes decent damage; they are also vulnerable against missiles only. In Fusion it does not demonstrate levitation or projectiles, its claw swipe can deplete entire Energy Tanks, their vulnerability against missiles is entirely non-existent, and while the Ice Beam proves effective against the Omega Metroid in Fusion, it had no effect in Metroid II. Its lack of levitation, however, could be explained by the room having an open door to space, and as such, it was gripping onto the floor to avoid being sucked out.
In the official artwork of all the Metroid stages, starting from the Alpha stage, all the Metroids have blue eyes, including the Omega Metroid and Queen Metroid. However, in Fusion the Omega Metroid has red eyes. Among these changes are also differences in color and design for the Omega Metroid, such as a golden maw, a fuchsia-colored chest and abdomen, and larger claws. This could be, however, the result of the BSL personnel accelerating the growth cycle of the Metroid specimens, causing this particular Metroid to undergo mutations. Metroids are also known to change appearance based on their environments, thus this could be a result of such a factor.
It could also be a possibility that the Omega in Fusion hadn't fully developed its powers as it just molted.
Unused Danny Richardson art
"This mutation is absolutely huge; its power, incredible!"
"A fast and frenzied fight will ensue when you encounter this highly advanced creature. Be ready with Missiles."

