http---metroid.wikia.com-wiki-Weavel.txt
Weavel is a Bounty Hunter who appeared in Metroid Prime Hunters. Weavel is a Space Pirate special-forces warrior who was converted into a cyborg after his entire body (save his brain and spinal cord) was irreparably damaged in a past battle with Samus Aran.
Weavel was a powerful Space Pirate warrior from a special unit. He was left for dead after a battle with Samus Aran in Brinstar. Only his brain and spinal cord still functioned. His only hope for survival was an experimental procedure in which his body was fused with a mobile life support system. The Space Pirates installed what was left of his body into a robotic shell with life support systems and weaponry, including an energy scythe. Since then he has become a bounty hunter for the Space Pirate forces. Weavel, like Samus Aran and Sylux, has a ship used for transport, however it is only seen in preview artwork and briefly glimpsed in a cutscene upon entering Oubliette, as well as a small image on a page the February 2006 issue of GamePro. His weakness is the Volt Driver. The Hunters guide states that Weavel's intentions are unclear, whether he intends to keep the Ultimate Power for himself or give it to the Space Pirates.
In terms of single player, Weavel, like all of the other Hunters, appears randomly in certain areas throughout each planet to combat, and like all of the other Hunters, if he defeats Samus, he will take one of her Octoliths and she will have to track him down and defeat him in order to gain it back.
Weavel's Affinity Weapon is the Battlehammer, which lobs powerful balls of green energy in an arcing motion to the targets. In multiplayer, this knocks back enemies, which can be useful for keeping enemies away. The Battlehammer also acts as a hand-held mortar. It can be used in team games for support while the other person is moving towards the enemy base.
Although he is only seen to wield the Battlehammer in campaign mode, Weavel was also seen to be firing a much smaller, pistol-like weapon at the Seal Sphere.
The Halfturret.
Weavel's alternate form is the Halfturret. Weavel splits into two pieces, the lower half becoming a Battlehammer-wielding turret and the top becoming a smaller Weavel capable of using its scythe in a swiping motion as it jumps. The player can leave the turret wherever he or she may stand and can return to Weavel's normal form at any time.
"This cybernetic warrior is part of a Space Pirate special unit. Badly injured in a past battle with Samus Aran, Weavel's body has been reconstructed and fused with a Power Suit. The rebuilt Weavel has become a formidable and ferocious warrior."
"Once a powerful space pirate general, Weavel was critically wounded during an altercation between the space pirates and Samus Aran. With just his brain and his spinal cord still functional, his body was fused with a mobile life support system."
"A former Space Pirate severely wounded by Samus in a scuffle on Brinstar, Weavel will remain associated with the Pirates as long as it's convenient. As a result of the injury Weavel sustained, the hunter can separate its torso from its lower body, which becomes a stationary turret." [1]
Weavel's trophy.
"A cyborg Space Pirate and member of a special-forces unit. Weavel was once left for dead in a fight with Samus. Like other hunters, he also seeks the ultimate power. His weapon of choice is the rapid-fire, heavy-duty Battlehammer. Weavel can transform into the Halfturret, where his upper and lower body split and can attack separately."
DS Metroid Prime: Hunters
Weavel's sticker automatically equips any character it is used on with a Beam Sword.
A Skree to the back and head.
Weavel's scythe and color scheme (suit, visor, hair) strongly resemble a Kihunter.

