http---metroid.wikia.com-wiki-Wikitroid-Administrators.txt
Administrators, or sysops, are editors who have access to technical features that help with maintenance. Those include protecting and deleting pages, blocking other editors, and undoing these actions as well.
The wiki software has a few important features that are restricted to only administrators and bureaucrats.
Types of identified users, listed here in roughly ascending order of power, include:
If you have been editing this wiki for some time and have gained the trust of the community here, you may nominate yourself or someone else for adminship over at Wikitroid:Requests for Access. Other users can comment on whether or not they approve your request. However, the final decision is up to the bureaucrats.
Bureaucrats, as mentioned above, are administrators that can promote other users to bureaucrat, and grant/revoke the administrator and rollback rights (they cannot demote other bureaucrats). Otherwise, they have exactly the same powers as an administrator. To become one, you must already be an administrator. All you need to do is file a new request just like you were running for adminship again (but remember to add the appropriate number, explained in the section that details how to create your request - step 2 for nominating yourself, step 3 for nominating someone else), remembering to put "bureaucrat" in the "adminship and/or bureaucrat" field.
These administrators have recently edited Wikitroid, making them active.
These admins have not edited Wikitroid for long periods of time, making them inactive.
These admins have been demoted for various reasons.
Admin bots are automated editing programs (bots) that have administrator rights, usually to make wiki maintenance easier. Since bots are a special case in terms of users, and since they can't be active or inactive by virtue of the fact that they aren't sentient, they are listed separately from the humans. However, like humans, bots can only get administrator rights through an RfA.

