http://metroid.wikia.com/wiki/Wikitroid:IRC
Wikitroid's IRC (internet relay chat) channel is #wikia-metroid, hosted by Freenode. It was founded by FastLizard4 on January 3, 2008. Feel free to join and chat!
IRC (Internet Relay Chat) is a real-time chat system where people can talk in various channels. Wikipedia's article on IRC has some more information about IRC and its history if you're interested.
The Wikitroid IRC webchat connect screen. Click to enlarge.
First, you need to know how to get to it. There's a couple ways you can connect, as seen at the top of the page, but everyone will be able to from here. Once you're there, enter in a nickname and make sure that security field is filled out, then just click "Connect" and you're good to go. See image to the right for a visual guide.

Wikitroid IRC webchat's chat screen. Click to enlarge.
To start chatting, click in the white bar at the bottom of the screen and type whatever you want to say. If others are on, give them a little time to check back and see that you're there. If you don't see anybody, or if they have gone "afk" (away from keyboard), just hang around as you browse in case someone logs in later on. See to the right for a visual guide to chatting.
Wikitroid administrators that frequent the IRC channel are voiced, which doesn't actually mean much itself, except that their nickname in the list of people on the channel (usually on the right side of the screen) will be preceded with a + (For example, +Exterminator and +FastLizard4). If you need help from an admin, look for the plus sign!
IRC also has a few extra points that are handy to know about.
If you've used IRC for a while and would like to learn more about it, including some extra features and commands, visit our advanced IRC information page! If you're new to IRC however, we recommend that you hang out in the channel for a while and get used to it before moving on to the advanced stuff. It can get confusing!
Channel rules are enforced by the channel operators. If you break the rules below, you may be quieted (allowed to join the channel and see other people talk, but not talk yourself), kicked (removed from the channel by force, but allowed to come back), or banned (removed from the channel by force and not allowed to come back until the ban is removed). The punishment depends on several factors, including the offense, and is up to operator that "catches" you.
Operators are people who can ban and kick users, as well as many other things. Only administrators on Wikitroid are allowed to become channel operators. Operators are responsible for enforcing channel rules.
Information for operators can be found here.
All of the users on this list are also Wikitroid administrators.
Users on this list are also administrators on Wikitroid, like the operators above, but they don't have operator access, most likely because they didn't want it.
You'll find this on the quotes subpage.

