http---metroid.wikia.com-wiki-Judicator.txt
The Judicator is an ice-based Affinity Weapon created by the Vhozon and given to acolytes who reach the fifth level of Vhozon Codex training. Noxus' weapon of choice, it shoots supercooled plasma at near absolute zero temperatures and ricochet off impacted surfaces. When charged, it fires three shots, unless used by Noxus, in which case it can freeze enemies within a certain radius.
Samus Aran acquires the Judicator on Arcterra. The Judicator is then used to take down the Slench in Arcterra, as well as destroy numerous Purple Force Fields and Purple Blast Shields in Arcterra and Alinos. Additionally, the Judicator is effective against Spire and enemies that use attacks similar to the Magmaul. It also affects Gorea when it turns purple. When used in story mode, it colors the markings on Samus' Arm Cannon purple.
The Judicator is good for mid- to short- range combat. Noxus can freeze people with the charged shot; once he freezes his enemies with the charged shot, he has the chance to plug a few rounds into them, or use the Imperialist for an instant-kill headshot.
The charge shot that the Judicator displays as an Affinity weapon is very different from its normal function; instead of a simultaneous tri-shot, the affinity Judicator charge attack manifests itself as a sort of force field that emanates all around Noxus in a two-foot radius. Unfortunately, while this function is good for defense, it is hugely impractical as an offensive weapon; in order for its charge function to have an effect, Noxus must be right up in his opponent's face when he releases it, which often forces him to chase targets down. However, there is a glitch called Shadow Freezing to bypass this issue. If it is not Noxus using the Judicator, then a charge shot, instead of freezing an opponent, will shoot three rounds at once. A common strategy is to be close to the target so that all of the rounds hit it.
"The Judicator is a powerful weapon given to acolytes who reach the fifth level of Vhozon Codex training. It can literally shatter the unworthy by blasting them with streams of energy that have been supercooled to nearly absolute zero."

