http://metroid.wikia.com/wiki/Metroid_Prime:_Federation_Force


Metroid Prime: Federation Force is an upcoming cooperative multiplayer action video game for Nintendo 3DS.[1] Announced at E3 on June 16, 2015, it is being developed by Next Level Games. The game focuses on the Federation Marines rather than Samus Aran, and the gameplay has more of a focus on action and sports rather than the traditional exploration-based gameplay of Metroid.
The game focuses on an archaeological survey mission into former Galactic Federation territory that has been overtaken by the Space Pirates.[2] [3] The game starts out with Blast Ball, an in-universe training exercise that produces a Marine of exceptional skill, which the player will take control of. The game is set in a solar system with three different planets, with ten missions on each for a total of 30 missions in the game. Known settings include Excelcion, an ice planet with an abandoned Federation base containing a weapon the Pirates seek to exploit. Another level, C-3 Island, has been seen as well, set in a desert environment. The third environment, which has not been seen, is said to be "made of gas".[4] Kensuke Tanabe has also revealed that one mission will feature Metroids, and another features minecart-based gameplay. [5] Tanabe has twice claimed that the game takes place between Metroid II: Return of Samus and Super Metroid, "as the other Primes did".[6] This is an error on Tanabe's part, as the Prime series takes place between Metroid: Zero Mission and Metroid II. Super Metroid takes place immediately after Metroid II.
Federation Force can be played co-operatively or alone. It involves a team of Marines fighting their way through enemy bases and objective-based missions. The game also has a focus on multiplayer and features Blast Ball, a 3v3 multiplayer mode that had been revealed days before. Blast Ball is an in-universe soccer-like game where participants enter Mech suits and shoot balls into nets.[7][8] Aiming in the game is done using the 3DS' gyroscope. Federation Force is the second title in the Metroid franchise to have a focus on multiplayer, after Metroid Prime Hunters, and the third to have it after Hunters and Metroid Prime 2: Echoes.
Before starting a mission, the players can equip various items in 3 categories: Support, Assist or Offense. This is similar to classes in an RPG title and can turn individual Marines into healers, soldiers or "wizards". Items include Repair Capsules, which is shot at a teammate to heal them, or Decoys, which deploy a model of Samus Aran to distract Space Pirates. Unlike the core Metroid Prime series, there is no Scan Visor or similar mechanic in the game.[6]
Producer Kensuke Tanabe explained that he had ideas for an online co-op game for the Nintendo DSi, but its hardware was not strong enough. The game was originally conceived as a launch title for the New 3DS, but will now be available on all 3DS systems. A Wii U version was also considered, but it would have required too many resources. Additionally, Tanabe has explained that due to the small low resolution screen of the 3DS, "stockier", chibi-esque characters would be easier to see compared to humanoid ones. He was afraid this style would look too comical but decided to continue with it after testing the game.[9] The character design draws from the Galactic Federation soldiers seen in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, but the game logo uses the Galactic Federation insignia from Metroid: Other M.
Tanabe has also mentioned that a potential continuation of the Prime sub-series beyond Corruption would involve the Galactic Federation, and Federation Force is meant to flesh out their role in the Prime universe before continuing the series.[10] Responding to fan criticism of the absence of series protagonist Samus Aran, Tanabe said that she will appear in a non-playable capacity.[11] The game can be played alone, with the option to have AI co-op partner "drones" fight alongside the player if they wish.[12]
Next Level Games had previously been working on a prototype for a 3DS Metroid title featuring Samus, which was shelved in favor of Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon.
It has been confirmed that the game's soundtrack will be created in part by Kenji Yamamoto, who composed all the games in the Metroid Prime Trilogy. Next Level Games' own musical staff will collaborate with Yamamoto in the creation of the soundtrack. [13]
Regarding amiibo support and whether the game would support the figures of Samus and Zero Suit Samus, Tanabe said it was being considered, and liked the idea of a Mech amiibo.[14]
Federation Force is the first Metroid-related title since Metroid: Other M in 2010. As such, the game has received heavy early criticism from fans who were disappointed that Nintendo chose to release a spinoff rather than a traditional Metroid game. Fans were also critical of the graphics, Samus' absence and the perceived lack of a single player mode. The reveal trailer on YouTube has received a 9:1 ratio of dislikes to likes, with over 75,000 dislikes and only 8,400 likes[15]. A Change.org petition calling for the cancellation of the game was created shortly after the game's announcement, reaching 7,500 signatures in under 24 hours, having collected over 22,000 signatures at the end of July.[16][17]
Through E3, Nintendo gave several responses about the fan reaction. In an interview with Mashable, Nintendo of America's president Reggie Fils-Aime mentioned that "What the fan at home saw was something in the Metroid Prime universe that they weren't expecting. The reaction has been negative. There's no sugar coating it." and explained the divisive game by saying that "We believe that in order to propel the franchises forward, we have to be the ones to constantly challenge the paradigms, challenge the conventional wisdom, challenge what we thought was the essence of the particular franchise, and a particular form of gameplay"[18]. In an interview with Kotaku, Reggie compared the game's reveal to that of The Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker which featured a brand new art style that was heavily criticized but was later very acclaimed after released, he also said that "We know the community wants to see a straight-up Metroid game. We know it."[19] Speaking with CGMagazine, producer Kensuke Tanabe mentioned that "I had in mind and expected that people would sort of act in a negative way when they find out that Samus was not an actual player" and that "they’ll definitely understand the different perspective that we’re taking here and it’ll certainly make a difference once you get some experience with the game."[20]


