http://metroid.wikia.com/wiki/Omega_Ridley
Omega Ridley is Meta Ridley infused with Phazon; this infusion has increased his incredible power to far greater heights. He acts as the Guardian for the Leviathan Seed on the Pirate Homeworld and is the third to last boss in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption.
Following his severe loss against Samus during the failed invasion of Norion, Meta Ridley managed to escape (or was retrieved by the Space Pirates) and exposed to massive amounts of Phazon, energizing him to a new combat threat level. He has a very durable, Phazon-enhanced armorskin and protective armored plating. However, he has an injury from his fall on Norion that has not yet fully healed, which is his only weak point (similar to the one in Metroid Prime). He will try to protect this injury, requiring Samus Aran to stun him and leave the injury open for strong attacks.[1] Samus encounters him on the Pirate Homeworld protecting the planet's Leviathan. After a long and difficult battle, the bounty hunter defeats Omega Ridley, causing him to explode into clouds of Phazon.
Compared to his previous form, Omega Ridley appears to have significantly less mechanical components, with the remaining machinery slowly being pushed out by his regenerating organic flesh. This is likely a result of his Phazon-enhanced healing process in the wake of his defeat on Norion.
Omega Ridley appears.
Initially, Samus must stun Omega Ridley by shooting at his mouth while it is open and glowing (in midair or ground level, the former resulting in him falling to the ground). She can then use the Grapple Lasso to rip off Omega Ridley's armor and overload the wound with Phazon. Alternatively, she can drain Ridley's own energy using the Grapple Voltage, which turns out to be to her advantage, as it allows her to replenish energy used up by attacking with Hypermode attacks. When his weak point is being damaged, Omega Ridley attempts to turn and move away from Samus, but will renew his offensive when his armor inevitably reseals itself.
After this process has been repeated a number of times, Omega Ridley's armor will be completely destroyed. In response, Omega Ridley will back up and generate a new piece of Phazite armor. This time, the X-Ray Visor must be used in co-operation with the Nova Beam to penetrate the Phazite armor, either by striking his wound directly or by weakening the armor's hinges and destroying it (the latter method is preferred, since the wound takes very little damage at this point). Apart from the change in targets, the method of attack is unchanged: stun the boss and attack the weak spots.
After this phase, Omega Ridley will give up on protecting his weakness, taking to the air with his wound exposed. He constantly flies in and out of the Leviathan, reappearing randomly from one of four different entrances, launching an attack before fleeing once more. At this stage, the wound is difficult to target (although watching the Motion Tracker may help predict where Ridley will approach from), but Samus is free to fire at will with Phazon attacks. It is recommended to enter and exit Hypermode when Ridley appears and leaves the arena in order to conserve health. After a few hit-and-runs, Omega Ridley may choose to resume his ground assault for a time, which gives Samus a prime opportunity to finish him off.
Omega Ridley is defeated.
The Screw Attack is one of Samus's most helpful items in this battle. Screw Attacking toward Ridley will cancel whatever move he is attempting to execute, as he will instead jump out of the way to avoid being rammed by the attack. Since several of his attacks are either difficult to dodge or simply waste time by making him temporarily invincible, the ability to control his movement pattern can be a great boon in this battle.
Samus receives the Hyper Grapple after defeating Omega Ridley, who disappears in a massive flash of Phazon after the battle.
After being infused with Phazon, Omega Ridley's abilities have been greatly augmented. His attacks include:
Initially, Omega Ridley will mainly attack with his fireballs and Kinetic Breath Weapon, using his shockwave and charge attacks periodically. When the second phase begins, he adds the spinning breath/tail attack and the Phazon orb shockwave to his repertoire, in addition to using his charge and shockwave more frequently. After losing his second set of armor, the Space Pirate commander will alternate between flight and ground phases. By then, Omega Ridley will be noticeably more aggressive and will constantly attempt to close in on Samus by running and/or leaping towards her. While he can still be stunned in the final phase of the battle, he will now clumsily walk and make small jumps to reach Samus and proceed to swipe his claws at her, making it fairly difficult to aim for his chest.

Sonny Santa Maria beta animation.
Omega Ridley on the Radar.
This is the music heard when battling Omega Ridley: [1].


