http---metroid.wikia.com-wiki-Metroid_Wiki.txt
Welcome to Wikitroid!
Wikitroid is a community that aims to create the best resource for Metroid, a series of video games produced by Nintendo.
We are currently editing 3,833 articles and growing.
While we have grown bigger and better over the past few years, we are still in need of help! See below for suggestions on what you can do to help us grow bigger.
All pages can be edited and you are welcome to join us and contribute to this wiki. Everyone is free to create a new page or edit an existing one.
Warning: This wiki contains spoilers. Read at your own risk.


Other Statistics
Want to chat with Metroid fans just like you? Please consider joining the "Official Unofficial" Metroid chat channel created under the collaborative effort of Metroid fansites like Shinesparkers, Metroid Database, Metroid HQ, and Wikitroid! All you have to do is click here!
This day in history

Template:News
MB was the main antagonist of Metroid: Other M. Samus Aran first saw MB watching her from a window overlooking the Experiment Floor in the Cryosphere, and she ran away to the Materials Storehouse after realizing she had been seen. Samus gave pursuit, and tried to convince the woman that she was here to rescue her, much to MB's denial. They were separated after Samus was attacked by a soldier using the RB176 Ferrocrusher. Later, Samus enters the Bioweapon Research Center in the Biosphere, and the woman is startled by Samus' presence. She runs behind a door and closes it. Samus once again tries to convince her that she means no harm. The woman opens the door, and introduces herself as Dr. Madeline Bergman. Samus takes her to sit down, and "Madeline" informs Samus of what has happened on the BOTTLE SHIP.
Read more
Wikitroid:Featured articles
About this wiki • New pages • New files • Categories • Wiki tutorial • Help pages
Other languages Español/Spanish • Français/French • Português/Portuguese • Italiano/Italian • Deutsch/German • Svenska/Swedish • Russian/Россию
Live IRC internet chat Connect to Wikitroid chat • Direct IRC connection (advanced) • More Information


