http://metroid.wikia.com/wiki/Noxus
Noxus is a Bounty Hunter who appears in Metroid Prime Hunters. He is a powerful Vhozon hunter, and seeks the ultimate power to be sure that no one of evil intentions possesses it.
Noxus is of the Vhozon, a highly esteemed monastic race on the Outer Rim of the galaxy. Noxus' sole reason for trying his hand at Bounty Hunting is to stop crime and protect the universe from losing the balance between good and evil. As did many of the other Bounty Hunters, Noxus received word of an opportunity to receive an extremely powerful weapon from the Alimbic Cluster, which he frantically goes to search for in hopes he can use it to bring peace to the galaxy, or at least stop it from falling into the wrong hands or the unworthy. Noxus brings with him the Judicator, a Vhozon weapon rewarded upon completion of the fifth level of Vhozon Codex training. Noxus was first encountered by Samus Aran on Arcterra, in combat with the Kriken bounty hunter, Trace.
Noxus later traveled to the Oubliette to break the Seal Sphere in search of the ultimate power. Upon doing this, he and the other hunters, Kanden, Trace, Weavel, Sylux and Spire were left to battle Gorea. Gorea managed to drain the powers from him and the hunters, but when Samus defeats Gorea causing the Oubliette's destruction, Noxus and the others are believed to have escaped.
"Noxus is a member of the Vhozon, a proud and reclusive race that inhabits the outer rim of the galaxy. A spiritual being who walks a harsh, righteous path, Noxus has become a bounty hunter to administer justice to the galaxy's criminals and evildoers."
"Noxus is a member of the Vhozon, a proud and reclusive race. He is determined to get the ultimate power first to prevent it from falling into the hands of lawbreakers or the unworthy."
"The Vhozon race's fanatical view of morality exceeds that of virtually all other civilized societies, and to enforce their sense of justice they have sent Noxus. To help survive the Vhozon's frozen home planet, Noxus can change into a rapidly spinning top to stay warm, as well as bowl over foes."

"A bounty hunter and member of the elite Vhozon race. He seeks the ultimate power if only to ensure that no one else possesses it. Noxus uses the Judicator, an ice-beam weapon which, in addition to its offensive ice blasts, features a protective field that freezes opponents."
DS - Metroid Prime: Hunters
During the confrontation, Noxus notices Samus and goes straight for her. In the fight, Samus must alternate between battling Trace and Noxus. Samus eventually fights off Noxus, but he will, from time to time run under a frozen ramp for cover, then Trace comes into the conflict firing his Imperialist. After Samus defeats Noxus, Trace flees, only to return later.
Noxus becomes a playable multiplayer hunter after he is defeated on Arcterra.
Noxus' Affinity Weapon is the Judicator. When using it, his charge shots work differently than those of other hunters in that instead of firing a 3-round scattering burst (at the cost of 5 ammunition), he instead fires a short-range wave that deals 15 damage and can freeze enemies for a short amount of time.
Noxus' HUD
Noxus' alternate form is the Vhoscythe, an adaptation of his species with defensive and offensive advantages, in that it can be used to escape, and is generally harder to attack, can fit into small spaces, and, as with all alternate forms, is immune to headshots. Offensive advantages come in the form of the ability to extend a leg appendage and use it as a close-range attack dealing a considerable 42 damage. When in this form, Noxus appears to be a sort of top.
The Vhoscythe is unique in that it can continually be on the attack until it reaches its target; once its attack appendage is extended, it can stay out as long as the player holds down the button, or until it comes into contact with a target. When the Vhoscythe attack is used, it takes about half a second before it actually can cause damage; the appendage is busy slowly extending from the body during this time. It takes about an additional second to reach full range, as the appendage still extends outwards. If an enemy is hit, the attack is reset and it will take about another half second before damage can be dealt again.
The Vhoscythe.

