http---metroid.wikia.com-wiki-Phaaze.txt
...Implant into... Sentient planet which is the source of all Phazon. ...Darkness coming."''
—Aurora Unit 313
Phaaze (so named by the Space Pirates and the Galactic Federation) was a sentient planet and the source of all Phazon. It is the final location Samus Aran visits in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, and by extension, the entire Metroid Prime Trilogy. From Phaaze, the living meteors known as Leviathans were grown and sent into space to corrupt planets. The known planets hit by Leviathans were Tallon IV, Aether, Bryyo, Elysia, and the Space Pirate Homeworld, though all were eliminated. A Leviathan was also sent to Norion, but it was destroyed before it hit the planet.
Phaaze is a sentient planet. Within the planet are Serpentine wombs where Leviathans are born and grown. Once they mature, they leave Phaaze and corrupt planets with Phazon. Leviathans leave Phaaze every 100 years. As the Leviathan corrupts the planet, it takes control of a powerful local bioform and manipulates it to protect its core. After many years, the corrupted planet becomes a Phaaze clone.[1]
The planet is completely composed of Phazon. This may mean that there could be undiscovered strains of Phazon present on Phaaze prior to its destruction. The existence of Black Phazon Crystals was previously unknown until discovery of the planet.
Phaaze was first discovered by a Chozo Searcher on Elysia. A once-thought-lost probe began transmitting data on Phaaze. However, this data only revealed minor details about the planet. The Chozo Searcher learned that Phaaze was somehow "alive". Unfortunately, the data being collected was mysteriously lost before the Chozo could properly analyze it. Further research about the planet was next to impossible, as Phaaze was incredibly far away, even for Chozo space-travel standards.
The Space Pirates prepare to respond to the Federation attack on Phaaze.
After this, Phaaze would be undetected for many years. The next time that bioforms exotic to Phaaze would lay eyes on it would be when Dark Samus brought the Space Pirates there. Following the Space Pirate attack on the G.F.S. Valhalla, Dark Samus implanted Aurora Unit 313 into the planet itself, allowing her to control the planet and its resources.
Finally, the Galactic Federation tracked the origin of the Leviathans to Phaaze. They began preparing to travel there to put an end to Phazon's destructive power. After taking control of a Leviathan Battleship circling the Pirate Homeworld and warping there, the Federation engaged the Space Pirate fleet in orbit above the planet while Samus headed down there to find Dark Samus.
After traveling through Phaaze's depths, Samus confronted Dark Samus. After they did battle, Dark Samus called forth Aurora Unit 313 and merged with it. Samus destroyed the corrupted Aurora Unit connected to Phaaze, and due to the symbiotic nature of this relationship, the destruction of the Aurora Unit caused a chain reaction that culminated in the destruction of Dark Samus and planet Phaaze itself.
Aazelion, one of the strange bioforms dwelling on Phaaze.
Life on Phaaze is largely Phazon-based. Phazon Puffers, Phazon Hoppers, and Phaz-Ing are abundant, as well as mutated Metroids; the presence of the latter species can be attributed to Space Pirates and Dark Samus having transported them to the planet prior to the events of Metroid Prime 3. In addition to these creatures, many previously unseen bioforms inhabit Phaaze, some that are even unidentifiable by Samus' Scan Visor. All species were rendered extinct by the destruction of the planet.
Husks that are identical to Metroid Prime can be found scattered and imbedded in the walls surrounding the Leviathan womb in the Genesis Chamber. It can be assumed that the husks belonged to an unknown number of Metroid Primes that have evolved from the lesser, mutated Metroid strains found in abundance on Phaaze. It is likely there are more Genesis Chambers on the planet, but only one was seen in the entire game.
Dark Samus also appears on Phaaze, as it is her base of operations, going as far as calling it her 'homeworld'. She can absorb energy from the planet itself to heal herself in battle. Aurora Unit 313 was located in the Sanctum, where it was implanted into the planet's core.
A list of creatures that can be found inhabiting Phaaze is below:
Samus' Gunship enters the planet's atmosphere.
Seconds after arriving on Phaaze, Samus' Phazon corruption reaches nearly critical levels, causing her to remain in Hypermode permanently. Samus became so corrupted (though not completely, as she still retained her free will) that her Gunship no longer recognizes her, therefore denying her access to her ship for the rest of the game.
Also, all Energy Tanks are "vented", and a yellow bar at the top of the H.U.D. is there in its place, showing her Phazon level. As Samus is exposed to Phaaze's atmosphere, this bar will gradually fill. The amount of time it takes to completely fill up depends on the number of Energy Tanks collected throughout the game; the more Samus has acquired, the more time space in the bar and time she will have. Taking damage also fills the meter. The bar will deplete when "Anti-Phazon Units" are absorbed, when Phazon Puffers absorb her energy for an attack or when using the Hyper Grapple to expel energy/Phazon into an enemy. When the meter is maximized, Samus becomes fully corrupted, and the game is over as Samus turns into a new Dark Samus.
"No one knows when Phaaze was born.
A planet completely unique in an infinite universe, unlike any that came before it. Phaaze was alive. A conscious, sentient being.
Like all living creatures, Phaaze did its best to ensure the continued survival and prosperity of its race. Every 100 years, seeds, similar in form to meteors, would be fired from Phaaze to planets far away. These seeds, these children of Phaaze, were called Leviathans. Leviathans had the ability to generate wormholes, allowing them to travel to galaxies unbelievably far away.
When a Leviathan strikes a planet, it creates a Phazon Core which emits a strong toxin called Phazon all over the planet. Phazon is a powerful substance with the ability to completely corrupt living beings through genetic mutation. Over the course of a couple years, Phazon corrupts the entire planet, at which point the planet is reborn as a Phaaze clone."[2]
Phaaze is an organism of gigantic proportions, which consists entirely of Phazon. Phaaze orbits a small star 361 lightyears away from Federation space. Intelligence suggests that Phaaze itself is intelligent to a degree; the so-called "Phazon Seeds" are created and fired by it as part of its reproductive cycle. Many life forms are located on Phaaze, including several species of mutated Metroid. Dark Samus has a base of operations on Phaaze, and is apparently capable of causing the planet to discharge Phazon Seeds according to her own will."
[3]
Non-canon warning: Non-canonical information ends here.
The planet's name is likely a play on the word phase, which is one part or portion in recurring or serial activities or occurrences logically connected within a greater process, often resulting in an output or a change. Phaaze acts as the final phase of the Metroid Prime Trilogy, though it triggered the events of the entire series prior to the plot depicted.
In a more literal sense, Phaaze is simply based off the word Phazon. This means that the name's true origin is the same as that of Phazon.
Metroid-shaped constellation.

Norion

a.k.a. Planet SN-883 or Urtraghus ("large booty")

