http://metroid.wikia.com/wiki/Gandrayda
—Gandrayda
Gandrayda is a Bounty Hunter who appeared in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption.
Gandrayda was a Bounty Hunter of unknown origin. However, she possessed metamorphic abilities similar to the inhabitants of Jovia XII. She could assume the form and abilities of most living things, including creatures and even machines differing significantly in size. Her age was unknown, though a psychological evaluation, her predilection for pranks, and her informal speech patterns in even military settings all indicate that she was relatively young. She viewed Bounty Hunting as a very enjoyable sport and considered the veteran hunter Samus Aran her chief rival. She intended to surpass Samus as a veteran Bounty Hunter as soon as possible. Gandrayda was a very capable combatant, but was often hired for stealth and reconnaissance missions due to her ability to mimic creatures. Lore on the Pirate Homeworld referring to her as "Mistress Gandrayda" suggests that she became a Space Pirate—it is likely that she fell under the influence of Dark Samus after being corrupted by Phazon.[1]
—Gandrayda's last words before she is corrupted.
Along with Ghor, Rundas, and Samus Aran, Gandrayda was asked by Fleet Admiral Dane of the Galactic Federation to help stop the Phazon corruption of the Aurora Units. Once the Space Pirates attacked the G.F.S. Olympus, the GF ship they are currently aboard, Gandrayda helps defend the ship by confronting the infiltrating Space Pirates. She then goes to Norion to help the Federation ground troopers and protect the base.
From left to right: Gandrayda, Rundas, Samus, and Ghor, the four bounty hunters featured in Metroid Prime 3.
When Samus arrives at Norion's Generator C, she finds a group of Space Pirates waiting for her. Just as she is about to fight them, one of them assaults its comrades. Once the other Pirates are dead, it transforms into Gandrayda, who leaves "Sammy" behind to do the work of activating the generator.
Once the four Bounty Hunters reached the Control Tower to activate the cannon that would destroy the approaching Leviathan, Dark Samus appeared and fired a burst of Phazon at them, causing them to fall unconscious.
—Gandrayda
Two weeks later, Gandrayda awakened to discover that Dark Samus's Phazon blast had caused her body to begin producing Phazon. With no visible negative effects, the Federation outfitted her with a Phazon Enhancement Device in order to harness this new source of Phazon. Gandrayda was sent to find the Space Pirate's stronghold, but the Federation eventually lost contact with her. Unknown to the organization, Gandrayda had been corrupted by her internal Phazon a week after she left.
After another week, Samus Aran awoke, and some time later the Federation found the location of the Pirate Homeworld thanks to an emergency GF communication capsule from Gandrayda, but didn't know her current status; it is safe to assume this transmission pod was used by Gandrayda prior to her corruption. Samus infiltrated the planet and eventually received a transmission from a nearby Federation Marine designated NZG41. She managed to reach the Marine and helped him activate an elevator. She and the Marine went up the elevator, though once they reached the Proving Grounds the Marine suddenly began firing at Samus, who dodged the shots in her Morph Ball form. The trooper transformed into Gandrayda, who was now clearly heavily corrupted and desired to battle Samus.
Gandrayda reveals herself
During the fight, Gandrayda will jump, flip, and run about the room, making it difficult to shoot her. She can create throwing blades that will lock onto and "seek" Samus, though they can be shot down for power-ups. Gandrayda will also use a ground-based impact wave that streaks directly towards Samus. At close range, Gandrayda will attempt to strangle and claw at Samus and must be shaken off with the Wii Remote. If successfully shot with a fully Charged Beam, she will trip onto the ground, leaving her vulnerable for approximately 2 seconds.
After taking some damage, Gandrayda will begin to use her shape-shifting abilities to transform into different enemies. She'll revert to normal after taking enough damage in these forms or after a certain amount of time. She also shares the weak points of these forms, so Samus can damage her in the same way as she did those enemies. The following is a list of the forms Gandrayda will take at this time:
Samus battles Gandrayda in the Proving Grounds.
At 75% health, Gandrayda opens part of the roof, covering the outer portion of the battlefield in deadly Acid Rain, as well as lower the six structures around the room. She'll then continue her attack, and will also begin using new transformations.
When Gandrayda's health drops to 50%, she will re-raise the six aforementioned structures before mimicking Samus in her iconic Varia Suit. While in this form, she will use a variant of the Boost Ball to bounce around the area and then unmorph to fire a powerful Beam.
Gandrayda can enable a cloaking field, rendering her invisible to the naked eye. She cannot employ it in conjunction with Hypermode, however. Gandrayda must be tracked with the X-Ray visor at this point.
At 25% health, Gandrayda stops transforming and begins to use Hypermode, where she moves even faster and all weapons used against her outside of Samus' own Hypermode attacks cause insignificant damage. When her Hypermode wears off, Gandrayda turns invisible. Samus must use the X-Ray Visor to keep track of Gandrayda and attack her until she uses Hypermode again.
Once defeated, Gandrayda screams in agony as she rapidly cycles through different forms (a Pirate Trooper, Rundas, Ghor, a Berserker Knight, and finally Samus in the current PED Suit) as she reaches out to Samus. Samus is unable to watch Gandrayda's death and looks away with a clenched fist as the wraith-like figure of Dark Samus arrives and absorbs her.
Gandrayda makes one last appearance in the Special Ending of the game, in which Samus takes a moment to mourn her fallen comrades on planet Elysia.
This is the music heard when battling Gandrayda: [1].
Gandrayda possesses powerful shape-shifting abilities. This allows her to assume the forms of various creatures as well as copy their abilities and powers. Their seems to be no limit to her shape-shifting powers as she is able to assume the form of creatures significantly larger than herself such as Beserker Knights and Ghor, as well as transform herself into machines (and multiple entities) such as Swarmbots. She is also shown to be extremely agile, able to make high and graceful jumps, flips, and cartwheels in the air. Gandrayda also appears to have some power over electricity. When she is not using her shape-shifting powers, she attacks from a distance by throwing electric orbs, and electric blades that home in on opponents. In addition, her power seems to affect machines as she was able to control the mechanism of the roof and structures during Samus's fight with her. She can also turn invisible to elude opponents.
Though her shape-shifting powers allow her to infiltrate places with ease and help her in battle, her shape-shifting comes with the downside of also gaining the creature's particular weakness.



