http---metroid.wikia.com-wiki-Crocomire.txt
The Crocomire (クロコマイヤー Kurokomaiyā) is a miniboss in Super Metroid. It is found in Norfair on the way to finding the Grapple Beam. The Crocomire cannot be killed by conventional means. Samus's weapons, such as Missiles, Super Missiles, and the Charge Beam shot into the mouth only succeed in making the beast take several steps backward, depending on the power of the weapon.
Crocomire as seen in-game.
When not being attacked, it sluggishly lumbers forward. Curiously, if a Power Bomb is used against it, the Crocomire will become enraged and charge forward much further compared to when it is not under attack.
Behind the Crocomire lies a thin bridge covering a pool of intense lava. Behind Samus lies a wall of Spikes. Thus, the battle is sort of a shoving match between Samus and the Crocomire: the former's goal is to push the large creature onto the bridge while the latter attempts to push Samus onto the wall of Spikes with its body. The beast periodically shoots fireballs from its mouth (that Samus can destroy for health and missiles) and will try to rake her with its claws. If Samus is repeatedly unsuccessful at preventing the creature from gaining territory, it will eventually and suddenly sprint to tackle Samus against the hazardous wall with its body, causing considerable damage; it will afterward take a few steps back before sprinting again.
When Samus manages to push the Crocomire onto the thin bridge, it will collapse under its weight, thus making the beast fall into the superheated lava. After she witnesses its horrible, gruesome death (its skin melting right off), the fight is seemingly over - yet Samus is still locked in the room, and she observes a trail of bubbles from the lava below traveling away to the other side of the chamber.
Crocomire's final attempt on Samus' life.
When she reaches the wall of spikes, the screen rumbles for a brief moment, and the Crocomire's skeleton rips through the wall. However, due to the fact that it is now only a pile of bones, it quickly falls apart in front of Samus with a humorous noise. Its skull will remain on the floor for the rest of her mission on Zebes.
Once Samus obtains the Grapple Beam, she can come back to this room to swing over the superheated lava to receive an Energy Tank and return unharmed, contrary to using the Speed Booster and/or Shinespark method. This Energy tank can also be obtained by simply walking through the lava and taking damage, then wall jumping up the ledge.
Sammy Hall Metroid Prime 3: Corruption concept art.
"This huge creature has sticky skin and spits plasma balls. When adventurers attempt to fight the Crocomire, it becomes angrier with every blow."
Interviewer: Huh? Made it dirty? Mashita: Apparently, the characters I drew were fairly cute. Characters like Crocomire were so charming that when they were killed, the player would feel sad about them. Osawa: He wanted to them to look like Fujiko Fujio's work! Then Yamane came into the picture. Mashita: When that happened, the characters became harsher so that the player could defeat them. Osawa: Fujiko Fujio became Hino Hideshi!* (Laughs)
*Fujiko Fujio was the two-person manga team behind Doraemon. Hino Hideshi is a famous horror manga artist. [1]
Crocomire as it would have appeared in Metroid: Zero Mission.

