http://metroid.wikia.com/wiki/RB176_Ferrocrusher

The RB176 Ferrocrusher
The RB176 Ferrocrusher[1] is a manually-piloted heavy industrial machine, presumably used by the Galactic Federation for construction and cargo loading. One such machine was in use in the Materials Storehouse of the Cryosphere of the BOTTLE SHIP. After Samus initially meets MB, a figure wearing a Galactic Federation Power Suit (later referred as the Deleter) drives the Ferrocrusher through a stack of crates, attempting to kill Samus and MB as well.
A Federation Trooper operating a Ferrocrusher attacks Samus in the Materials Storehouse.
The Ferrocrusher is a machine designed primarily for industrial purposes, but can be used as a devastating vehicle in combat situations. It attacks with large metal arms for lifting, lasers for precision cutting, and heavy industrial buzzsaws for ripping and tearing.
Both the Ferrocrusher's arms must be frozen and then broken off with a Missile. Once Samus breaks off both arms, the Ferrocrusher engages several buzzsaws in front of the machine, and attempt to run over Samus while still using lasers occasionally. In order to overcome the Ferrocrusher, Samus must freeze one of the treads used to move to reveal the engine on top of the machine. Samus finishes off the Ferrocrusher with an Overblast or a Missile aimed at the engine, critically damaging the machine and sending it into a wild frenzy.
After the Ferrocrusher is seemingly defeated, the vehicle starts to crash into walls. When the object stops, the suit within the cockpit is missing.
If Samus fails to damage the engine, the tread will break free and close the engine point.
RB176 Ferrocrusher concept art and what appears to be the Deleter in front of it.
"As you might guess from the coloring, this is an industrial machine... but it ends up attacking Samus anyway. It's covered in tools that may have served less violent purposes originally but are very effective as weapons. The trick to defeating it is to stay calm and freeze its moving parts and then dismantle it with extreme force."


