http---metroid.wikia.com-wiki-List_of_Metroid_endings.txt
Most Metroid games have featured endings that are received based on difficulty level, game completion, and/or play time. Metroid Prime Pinball and Metroid: Other M do not feature endings in the traditional sense, although Zero Suit Samus is playable during the countdown in the latter.
It is tradition for Samus to remove her Power Suit and reveal her true self in the Justin Bailey, Ending Outfit or Zero Suit in the best endings, which also say "See you next mission" when the item percentage and completion time are displayed.
Samus stands on the surface of Zebes in all endings while performing one of several actions.
Samus runs throughout the credits, jumps high, and lands, with either one of these events occuring.
Samus will either remain suited, flip up her helmet or remove her Power Suit entirely, and then jump up offscreen, before falling down and firing a blast.
Shortly before this, she is forced to escape Zebes, and she has the option of saving the trapped Dachoras and Etecoons. If she does, a white light will be seen leaving the exploding planet.
An ending score in the Spanish version of Fusion.
Samus, in her Unnamed Suit, will be shown in various poses, before one of the following ending pictures appears:
The Japanese versions contains an additional set of endings that show images of Samus' past rather than the adult Samus in revealing attire. These are shown when the game is cleared with Child Mode. Linking to Metroid: Zero Mission with the Nintendo GameCube Game Boy Advance Cable will unlock all endings, including Japanese-only endings, and an additional two new endings, for a special gallery.
In addition, these two endings are present with the gallery in Zero Mission, and cannot be found in Fusion.
All endings depict Samus standing atop her Gunship, looking at the destroyed Artifact Temple with her helmet removed. Also, back at the Impact Crater, Dark Samus is born from Metroid Prime's remains.
Samus will stand against a space background in various poses before clenching her fist. Each ending, upon acquisition, will be added to a gallery in the menu. The endings for Metroid Fusion can be unlocked by linking the two games with the Nintendo GameCube Game Boy Advance Cable.
These endings are not affected by item percentage or clear time, rather, by fulfilling the Alimbic Prophecy and defeating Gorea's second form.
Samus will wave farewell to the Luminoth before reaching her Gunship. However, after Samus leaves Aether, Dark Samus can be seen forming in the midst of space.
Samus will appear out of nowhere when it appears she had been lost in the destruction of Phaaze. She then heads to SkyTown, Elysia to mourn her fallen comrades before heading off into the unknown. Meanwhile, a mysterious spacecraft appears and follows Samus.
As stated, there are no traditional endings in Other M. However, Samus will congratulate the player in voiceover on the item percentage screen. Depending on their final percentage, these messages are heard:

