http---metroid.wikia.com-wiki-Ghor.txt
—Ghor
Ghor is a cybernetic Bounty Hunter, capable of merging his body with a large armorsuit. He appears in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption.
Ghor is a veteran of the liberation war of Wotan VII. During the war, Ghor was heavily injured and was forced to modify much of his body with state-of-the-art cybernetic replacements. As a result, only 6% of his original body remains. However, Ghor retains his personality and is known for his empathy, compassion, and sense of humor. Gentle and intelligent, he helps the weak, poor, and troubled by working as a Bounty Hunter for free or giving bounty money he earned to the victims of his targets.[1]
Concept art
Ghor also has a large armorsuit which doubles as a gunship and provides him with strong armaments, making him formidable in combat. Merging with his suit causes his personality to shift dramatically, making him aggressive and violent. Ghor works very well with anything mechanical, so he is often hired for missions requiring computer infiltration or manipulation.[2]
Without his armor, however, he appears to be fairly weak; Samus is easily able to fend him off with three Power Beam shots when he confronts her in the Aurora Chamber maintenance level in SkyTown. This is further reinforced by his lore that states he is "not the most skilled of fighters."
Ghor, along with Rundas, Gandrayda, and Samus Aran, is asked by Fleet Admiral Dane of the Galactic Federation to help stop the Phazon corruption of the Aurora Units. He travels to the GFS Olympus with the other Hunters and heads for the Ready Room there. Samus first sees him undergoing a biohazard scan in the Security Station and later officially meets him in the ship's Ready Room. Once the Space Pirates attack the ship and the planet Norion below, Ghor helps defend the ship by confronting the infiltrating Space Pirates. He then goes to Norion to help the Federation ground troopers and protect the base.
On the planet, he fights the various Space Pirates and defeats a Berserker Lord when Samus meets him on the planet. He tells Samus to fix one of the planet's broken generators while he continues battling Space Pirates. It is notable that if Samus scans the first Berserker Lord then quickly brings up the info on what Ghor is battling by scanning it, the scan will give information on a Berserker Lord.
Once the four Bounty Hunters reach the Control Tower to activate the cannon that will destroy the approaching Leviathan, Dark Samus appears and fires a large laser composed of Phazon at them, causing them to fall unconscious.
Two weeks later, Ghor awakens. Due to Dark Samus firing Phazon at him, his body is now self-producing Phazon, though with no apparent negative effects. The Federation gives him a Phazon Enhancement Device to use this Phazon and sends him to the planet Elysia to give the Aurora Unit there a vaccine to cure it of Phazon corruption. However, he is unable to successfully control the Phazon inside his body and becomes corrupted by it.
Samus Aran is sent to the floating city of SkyTown, Elysia to find out why contact was lost with Ghor and to vaccinate Aurora Unit 217. When she lands in SkyTown, she finds Ghor's face displayed on various computers and eventually, his Armorsuit being attended to by Repair Drones.
Samus finds the AU and enters a maintenance tunnel that leads to the port where she can input the vaccine. After she does, she is confronted by Ghor, who uses his Plasma Cannon to destroy vital circuitry that connects the Aurora Unit to the Skytown network. Samus fires at him, but Ghor is barely affected, and leaves through a door he locks to Samus.
Ghor's Phazon corruption causes him to become hostile to Samus, attempting to throw her Gunship at her.
Aurora Unit 217 then tasks Samus with retrieving Ghor's plasma cannon to repair the circuitry. To do so, she must kill him. Soon afterwards, Samus's Gunship sends her a transmission stating that an unknown entity is attacking the hull of her ship at the Main Docking Bay. Once Samus arrives, he tells her that she is "just in time", and then deals a crippling blow to Samus's ship before throwing it in her direction. This crushes a piece of Chozo statuary above, preventing Samus from escaping. Samus sends her ship away and begins to fight Ghor.
Ghor challenges Samus
After crippling Samus's ship with his mech, Ghor throws it at the gateway to the landing pad, smashing the wall and trapping Samus. As she remotely pilots her Gunship away, Ghor activates a large frontal shield, and with a maniacal laugh, he begins repeatedly charging Samus as well as attempting to crush her with a thruster-enabled leap that creates a seismic wave upon impact. When Ghor charges at Samus, she can freeze the Fuel Gel on the landing pad with an Ice Missile, which makes Ghor slip, lose control, and crash into one of the walls so that Samus can attack his main CPU. Another way Samus can get at Ghor's generator is by locking on to him and strafing around him when he gets close during his charge. Samus will then have a short time to shoot at the generator before he recovers and turns around. When the generator on the back of Ghor's armorsuit is damaged to a certain degree, the shield deactivates, stunning him for a while, and Ghor will fire shoulder missiles, small bursts of plasma, and a large plasma beam from his chest while stationary as well as using a spin attack until the shield is reactivated. He will repeat this attack pattern until the main reactor (his head) is severely damaged. Samus can easily dodge Ghor's missiles by going into her Morph ball and using the boost ball to outrun the missiles; Samus can also dodge the large plasma beam by space jumping at the correct moment and thus avoiding the attack; Samus can also avoid this attack by going into her morph ball and going very close/ underneath Ghor as this plasma beam is restricted to a specific range of angles.
Ghor absorbs the Fuel Gel
When the shield is permanently destroyed, he vents out energy that seemingly evaporates all Fuel Gel in the dock, and a small reactor will drop down from the undercarriage of his armorsuit. Samus can only hit it with ground-based attacks—in other words, the Morph Ball. However, caution is required while in Morph Ball mode, as Ghor will attempt to grab her from afar using a hookshot launched from his arm and proceed to smash her against the floor. Bombs are preferable to the Hyper Ball because while Ghor takes limited damage from the Hyper Ball; Samus will still lose 25-50 units of energy. Hitting the small reactor with a fully charged Boost Ball is effective as well. In this phase, Ghor will use his previous attacks plus the previously mentioned hookshot. When the undercarriage is hit, Ghor's faceplate is temporarily uncovered and left vulnerable for a while.
After Samus has inflicted critical damage on him, Ghor will lose his frontal armor and become desperate; he'll enter Hypermode and use every weapon at his disposal until Samus finishes off his main reactor. Ghor will then try to change his armor into its gunship mode and escape, but it explodes, leaving Ghor floating in the air. His body trembles and he seems to gasp as a wraith-like Dark Samus absorbs the Phazon in his body, consuming him completely despite Samus's efforts to stop her by firing at Dark Samus's ghost-like form. On wings of darkness, Dark Samus soars away from the landing pad, leaving behind only Ghor's Plasma Beam.
Gandrayda sometimes morphs into Ghor when Samus fights her. In this form, she is known as "Ghor-G". Prior to her defeat, she will also morph into Ghor and fall down on her knees.
Ghor makes one last appearance in the special ending of the game, in which Samus takes a moment to mourn her fallen comrades on the same landing site where she fought him.
Upon donning his armorsuit, Ghor becomes a force to be reckoned with. The cyborg's armorsuit grants him physical strength sufficient enough to spar evenly with a Berserker Knight and throw Samus' gunship with little effort. It also contains a formidable arsenal of weapons, all that are at his disposal in battle. These include:
Without his armorsuit, Ghor is physically weak on his own. This is evident as Samus was easily able to overpower him with three Power Beam Shots, though the power beam appears to be more powerful in cutscenes than in actual gameplay. Also, the frontal shield on his armor can be temporarily deactivated by overloading the generator on his back. His armorsuit also contains a fragile mini reactor that can easily be destroyed with the Morph Ball's arsenal.
This is the music heard when battling Ghor: [1].


