http://metroid.wikia.com/wiki/Help:Images
Any logged in user can upload images to the wiki. If you need help uploading files, then see Help:Uploading files. For the official policy, see Wikitroid:Images.
CC-BY-SA or public domain images are recommended, though it is very hard to find any free images for games. Copyright-violating images are subject to deletion. Copyright information must be added to the image description page of every uploaded image.
It is strongly recommended that any images used on this wiki are uploaded directly rather than using links to external sites. Displaying externally hosted images steals bandwidth from other sites, and is a feature which could be switched off in future (as it has been on Wikipedia) so you should not rely on images used in this way always being available.
Using images from other Wikia in this way, however, should not cause any problems. For example, you can use http://doom.wikia.com/images/b/bc/Wiki.png if you want to display the Doom Wiki logo on this wiki rather than reuploading it.
It is recommended all images have a tag added stating which license they are under. For example, typing {{GFDL}} on an image description page will display:
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts. Subject to Wikia disclaimers.
If they are not in violation of any copyright, then you can upload certain file types. Images and sounds shouldn't be a problem, but there is a size-per-file limit of 5MB, so videos might be a problem. It is recommended that you upload files which are too large to another site and link to them there instead. For example, you can use the Wikimedia commons if the file would also be useful to a Wikimedia project (such as Wikipedia), or else to Ourmedia which allows videos to be uploaded there and then used on other sites.
See Extended image syntax on Wikipedia.
Administrators can change the logo of a wiki by uploading a new image over File:Wiki-wordmark.png (New Look) or File:Wiki.png (Monobook). Similarly, the favicon (the icon next to the URL box) can be changed by uploading a new image to File:Favicon.ico. It is recommended that administrators protect these files from unauthorized changes.
The <gallery> tag is a MediaWiki feature for creating image galleries; an easy way to display many images together.
produces:
Brackets are used only for adding links within captions. Captions are optional. Images are separated by newlines. The width of the gallery can be changed in your preferences.
Adding photos is a simple and great way to improve any article, and provide further detail and color.




