http---metroid.wikia.com-wiki-Help-Preferences.txt
Once you have created an account and are logged in, you can change your preferences. This help page is to help you understand what you can do with your preferences. Once you have changed your preferences, they will be the same across all Wikia.
This is the first tab. First of all, you can give your real name and e-mail address. While both are optional, giving your e-mail will allow Wikia to e-mail your password to you if you forget it. If you also "Enable e-mail from other users", then others can e-mail you from your user page or user talk page by using the "E-mail this user" feature in the sidebar under the search box. You can also change your password in this tab.
Next you can create a signature for yourself. This will appear whenever you type four tildes (~~~~). By default, your signature is Your user name.
Next is a box with "Raw signatures" beside it. Checking this box will allow you to greatly customize your signature, explained below. If you plan on leaving your signature as it is, then you do not have to click this box.
If "Raw signature" is checked, then:
For example, with the box checked, you can make a signature like this: [[User:Your user name|Your custom user name]] <sup>[[User talk:Your user name|talk]]</sup>. This will appear as: Your custom user name talk
This is the second tab. Here, you can select the skin you would like to view Wikitroid in. The skins listed are:
O Classic O Cologne Blue O Memalpha (Memory Alpha's skin) O MonoBook O MySkin O Simple O Slate O Smoke O Wookie (Wookieepedia's skin) O Wow (WoW wiki's skin)
The default skin for Wikitroid will be a Wikia-created skin in the future, either "Slate" or "Smoke". Note that if you want to use the wiki's skin or use your own, then you must check the MonoBook skin. The Monobook skin is Wikitroid's own skin.
You can also have own custom skin. You can make your own skin at User:Your user name/monobook.css. So if your username is 10110, then all the info you would want for your skin would be at User:10110/monobook.css. Note that CSS is required to make your own skin.
You can preview the skins in this tab, or you can see what this page looks like in each skin by clicking the below links.
This is the third tab. Here, you can select the size of images on image description pages and thumbnail sizes. The largest limit, 10000x10000, will show you full images. If you have a slow connection, it is recommended you use small sizes.
This is the forth tab. Here, you can select the way you would like time to be displayed. You can also select whether you would like to use the server's time (usually UTC) or your local time.
This is the fifth tab. Here, you can customize your editing tools.
This is the sixth tab. Here, you can set the preferences for viewing the recent changes.
Wikia Basics - Create an account Sign up for an account • Edit your user profile • Preferences • Facebook Connect

You can locate your preferences menu easily by hovering over your avatar.
Logged in Wikia users are able to set some personal preferences which tailor the way they read, write and edit on Wikia to their particular style. These preferences are applicable across all Wikia wikias, so the same preferences are applied on every wikia you visit. To access your preferences, move your mouse over your avatar at the top right of a page. A drop down menu will appear, and from here select "My preferences"
This help page will walk you through the current preference options Wikia users have and explaining the effects of changing these options. We will address these in order from tab-to-tab.
Tabs are organized to clump together related preferences so that it is easier to find the relevant field to change. By default, there are five tabs on the Special:Preferences page.
Special:Preferences, showing the first tab.
Please realize that none of the changes you make to your preferences will be stored unless you press the "Save" button. You can also reset your preferences to the default settings you had when you registered for Wikia. This can not be undone, so choose wisely if you wish to reset.
The email tab allows users to change their email address on record with Wikia and then control the type and volume of emails they receive from Wikia.
To learn what followed pages are, please consult this help page on followed pages.
These preferences will determine when if your account will automatically watch the page when you make one of four major changes to a page:
Now that you have managed your subscriptions to a page through the followed page feature, you can also choose how much communication you receive about those pages. These are fairly self explanatory. Some quick notes:
Email communication is a critical tool that allows you to stay attuned on what is going on your favorite wikias as well as on Wikia as a whole.
We presented you on this Email tab with plenty of options to suit the types and volume of emails you receive from Wikia. If you have concerns about email, we would suggest you review your general email preferences first.
That said, Wikia does respect your right to not be emailed from our network if you do not wish to be contacted by us. As such, if you check this box, you will not receive any emails from Wikia until the checkbox is unchecked.
This tab combines a number of highly technical, specialized preferences. If you are new to wikias and editing, you may want to leave this tab alone until you understand how most of these tools perform normally.
This will control followed pages behaviour.
The Facebook Connect preferences tab when Facebook Connect is enabled on your account
The Facebook Connect extension has its own tab on your preferences. It is a tool that can help log in you to Wikia with the click of a button as well as more easily share information about your wikia to your Facebook friends and feed. Please click here to learn more about this tool.
If you have not yet connected your Wikia account to Facebook, one of the ways you can do so is going to this tab in Preferences and follow the link to start the connection process.
This is also the tab where you can choose to disconnect your account from Facebook Connect.
In addition to the default tabs & sections listed above, some extensions add extra preferences to your Preferences page. Please view the help pages linked to learn about these special preferences.
More help pages Help Contents • Wikia Basics • Contributing • Designing Your Wikia Managing Your Community • Managing Your Account • Getting Technical

