http://metroid.wikia.com/wiki/Super_Metroid
Wii Virtual Console September 20, 2007 / August 20, 2007 October 12, 2007 Wii U Virtual Console May 15 - June 13, 2013 (Trial Campaign)[1]
CERO: A ESRB: E PEGI: 7+
Super Metroid (スーパーメトロイド, Sūpā Metoroido?), also known as Metroid 3, is a video game developed by Nintendo R&D1 and published by Nintendo for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System. Super Metroid is the third installment in the Metroid series. With its 24-megabit cartridge size, it was the largest game available for the console at the time of its release.[2]Super Metroid is a 2D platform video game with action and adventure elements. Game progression revolves around gathering Power-ups that allow Samus Aran to overcome obstacles in order to access new parts of the world. Like most 2D Metroid games, the world has a non-linear design and features many hidden areas, making exploration a central concept of the game.[3] It is considered as one of the greatest video games of all time, and its formula has served as the primary basis for all Metroid games to follow.
Super Metroid was released on the Wii's Virtual Console on August 20, 2007 as part of the "month of Metroid" campaign.[4] It was also added as one of the Masterpiece demos in Super Smash Bros. Brawl and Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, allowing in Brawl 3 minutes of play from 3 different saves.
The game was made available on the Wii U's Virtual Console from May 15, 2013 to June 13, 2013 as part of the Wii U Virtual Console Trial Campaign, which allows for GamePad-only play and customizable controls.[1] Those who own the Wii Virtual Console version of Super Metroid will be able to get the Wii U Virtual Console version for a reduced price.[5]
The title screen for Super Metroid.
After exterminating the Metroids on SR388 in Metroid II: Return of Samus, Samus Aran brought the infant Metroid to the Ceres Space Colony, likely staying at the colony while scientists studied the young Metroid. The scientists' findings showed that the powers of Metroids could be harnessed for the benefit of mankind. Leaving the Baby in their care, Samus left Ceres in search of a new bounty to hunt. However, shortly after leaving, Samus picked up a distress call from Ceres and returned to investigate. As Samus explored the space colony, she discovered the bodies of the scientists lying about the room that had held the Baby's capsule in a tube. The tube itself was broken and empty. Continuing her investigation, Samus soon encountered Ridley once again, finding him clutching the Baby's capsule. Samus desperately fought Ridley, but he overpowered her and fled the station carrying the hatchling. At the same time, a Countdown began, leaving Samus a mere 60 seconds to escape before the station's destruction. Samus quickly returned to her gunship and pursued Ridley to the nearby planet Zebes.
The entrance to Tourian, guarded by the Golden Statues.
Arriving at Zebes, Samus discovered that the Space Pirate base that she had destroyed in her last visit to the planet had been rebuilt during the years in which the events of the Prime series (including Metroid Prime: Hunters) took place. By this time a portion of Crateria, the surface of Zebes, had integrated with Tourian from Metroid (dubbed "Old Tourian"), including Mother Brain's old control chamber, suggesting that these areas were the remains of the Space Pirate base from the original Metroid. Samus set out to locate the infant Metroid and prevent the Space Pirates from gaining use of its powers. As in the previous games, Samus was forced to delve into the planet through its many caverns to hunt down the Space Pirates. This time, however, Samus could only enter Tourian by destroying four bosses: Kraid, the obese lizard who was one of the original guardians of Tourian and whose base makes up a large part of Brinstar; Phantoon, a ghostly entity that controls the Wrecked Ship and reroutes its power supply to Mother Brain; Draygon, a crustacean monster that occupies a submerged Pirate lab in Maridia; and Ridley himself, who controls Norfair from the inside of his own lair.
After defeating all four bosses and discovering the Mochtroids, unsuccessful clones of Metroids, Samus battled her way through Tourian, encountering newly bred Metroids. After destroying everything in her way, she encountered a Metroid far larger than the rest. Before she could attack it, the giant Metroid drained all but one unit of her Power Suit's energy. However, it seemed to recognize Samus; as this huge Metroid was actually the Baby. According to the Super Metroid Nintendo Player's Guide, the huge Metroid is named "Super Metroid".
Samus fighting the first form of Mother Brain.
After the Metroid departed, Samus restored her suit's energy and confronted Mother Brain. After Samus destroyed her Control Capsule and inflicted enough damage, Mother Brain attached itself to a giant mechanical body and the battle began again. During the battle, Mother Brain repeatedly used a massive burst of energy from its eye on Samus, leaving her near death and unable to stand. Before the final blow could be inflicted, however, the once-Infant Metroid suddenly attacked Mother Brain, draining its energy until it slumped against the wall, gray and seemingly lifeless. The Baby then attached itself to Samus and began feeding the stolen energy to her while carrying her through the air (as depicted in Metroid: Other M's recreation of the battle in its intro). However, Mother Brain soon recovered and began firing upon the baby, weakening it until it lifted off of Samus. A final shot destroyed the hatchling, leaving its remains to fall upon Samus.
Mother Brain hitting Samus with the Laser Brain Attack.
Pulsating with energy from Mother Brain, Samus now possessed the Hyper Beam. With it, she avenged her fallen "child" and easily destroyed Mother Brain, who fell to the floor and crumbled to dust. This in turn triggered a self-destruct sequence, giving Samus three minutes to escape through the emergency evacuation shaft of the original base. Along the way, Samus rescued three Etecoons and two Dachoras she had encountered earlier in Brinstar. She made it to her gunship just in time and took off, watching the planet crack and explode in a flash of bright light.
The Space Pirates were gone, or so it was hopefully believed, but the universe had lost the possibility of using the Metroids for the good of mankind. Zebes, the home of the Chozo was lost forever, and Samus had fallen into a state of depression over the loss of her baby.
The events of Metroid: Other M followed soon afterward.
Super Metroid's gameplay is very similar to the other Metroid games in the series, though it is better known for its non-linearity. Due to this, Super Metroid is often used for speed runs.
Super Metroid takes place on the large, open-ended planet Zebes. Samus progresses through the planet by finding Power-ups that enable her to access new areas, much like other 2D Metroid titles. For example, finding the Morph Ball allows Samus to obtain the Missiles, and finding them lets her access several more areas.
The game introduced new abilities and concepts, such as combining weapons and the ability for Samus to customize herself—she can change her suit and enable or disable her abilities at will. She can also perform a "Moon Walk", in reference to Michael Jackson's dance move of the same name, which allows her to walk backwards slowly while charging a shot, or rapidly firing if she does not have the Charge Beam.
Super Metroid is also the first game in the series to implement a map feature to aid the player in navigation.  This has since become a staple of the series, appearing in every subsequent entry to date.
Main Article: List of items in Super Metroid
From the inventory screen, the player can enable or disable weapons and other abilities that Samus has gathered by collecting power-ups.
The use of weapons, Power-ups and other suit upgrades in Super Metroid is twofold: to defeat enemies and to overcome obstacles found in the environment.
A portion of Maridia.
Not all inhabitants of Zebes are hostile towards Samus. On the planet, Samus may also encounter the following helpful creatures:
After defeating Mother Brain and starting the self-destruction of Zebes, Samus may choose to save the first two creatures. A flashing metal door appears in Crateria, the one that originally led her to acquire the Morph Ball Bomb. In this chamber the creatures appear to be trapped. Samus can destroy the opposite facing wall so that the aliens may escape. This causes a slight change in the ending cutscene, in which a flash of light can be seen escaping from the planet. This ending is canon, as the creatures show up alive and well in Metroid Fusion.
At the time of its release, Super Metroid was universally praised. To this day, it remains one of the most popular and critically acclaimed games not only for the SNES, but in all of gaming history. It has sold 1.4 million units (780,000 in Japan and 460,000 in North America), becoming a Player's Choice. It frequently appears in "best games of all time" lists; Electronic Gaming Monthly has named Super Metroid the best game of all time,[7] and IGN ranked it the third best game of all time in its 2003 "top 100" list, and fourth best game of all time in its most recent 2006 list, with the motivation:
Swedish game publication Super PLAY ranked Super Metroid number 6 in the "top 100" list its March 2003 issue, commenting on its atmosphere:
In a Metroid feature in its December 2002 issue, Super PLAY also noted the game's care to detail:
Super Metroid served as a formula for subsequent 2D games in the Metroid series, as it refined and provided a definitive version of concepts introduced in the first two Metroid games.
The two-dimensional Castlevania games beginning with Castlevania: Symphony of the Night on the PlayStation/Sega Saturn and continuing on the Game Boy Advance and Nintendo DS borrow elements from Super Metroid, such as the "retraversal" style of gameplay involving items that give new abilities to access new areas, as well as the style of map. This has led to the creation of the "Metroidvania" genre when describing similar action-adventure games.
Super Metroid's open-ended gameplay style has made it a popular choice for speed runs. Due to the non-forced storyline and optional powerups, many players compete to see who can complete the game fastest, or with the fewest items, or both. This has caused Super Metroid to be a major contributor to the speedrun phenomenon, and one of the most popular games for both assisted and unassisted speedruns. Most speed runs are available from the Internet Archive.
In the final version of Metroid Prime, Metroid is unlockable by connecting with Metroid Fusion. However, Super Metroid originally had this role. The only evidence of this is a beta menu design in Danny Richardson's portfolio. An anonymous ex-Retro Studios developer clarified the matter by stating that David Kirsch had built Super Metroid into Prime successfully, using a third-party emulator. Because Nintendo was opposed to such a practice, they ordered the game's removal, leading to its replacement with Metroid on a custom emulator. [2]
Retro later discussed having the game as an unlockable extra in Metroid Prime 2: Echoes, but time constraints prevented its inclusion. [3]



