http://metroid.wikia.com/wiki/Aurora_Unit_313
—Aurora Unit 313
Aurora Unit 313 was the final boss in Metroid Prime 3: Corruption.
A Galactic Federation Aurora Unit stolen by Space Pirates from the G.F.S. Valhalla,[1] under the orders of Dark Samus. AU 313 was an organic supercomputer originally used to assist and interface with the crew of Federation starships. As it was being removed from the Valhalla by the Pirates, it left behind a final message to the Federation, detailing its abduction. It was taken to Phaaze, where it was implanted into the planet and corrupted by Phazon. Seemingly as a result of Phaaze being a living organism, coupled with the Space Pirates' expertise in bio-technology, the organic supercomputer became symbiotically linked with the planet. Through the usage of AU 313 within the Sanctum, Dark Samus was able to control Phaaze, allowing her to systematically launch the Leviathans toward targeted planets at will. Aurora Unit 313 also infected several of its fellow AUs located in Galactic Federation territory with a virus via their shared digital network, forcing the organization to shut down their systems and leave their territories vulnerable to an attack, triggering the events of the game.
After Dark Samus is defeated by Samus Aran on Phaaze, the former merges with the Aurora Unit, forcing Samus to battle against it. To destroy it, Samus must first attack the open holes from which its tentacles emerge in order to stun it, then open the hatch on its head with the Grapple Lasso to reach its core and overload it with Phazon energy. Once this is done, the cable connecting it to the ground will break and reveal its weak point. It will fly around the arena during this part of the fight. At this point, Samus must attack the weak point where the cord once was.
Once Samus destroys it, Dark Samus is finally defeated. The destruction of the Aurora Unit begins a chain reaction, caused by the symbiosis of Phaaze and the AU, that ultimately culminates in Phaaze exploding.
313 also appears in a Diorama in the game's Extras menu. (See Gallery)
The Unit's first form.
The Aurora Unit in its second stage.
Before its abduction from the G.F.S Valhalla, Aurora Unit 313 was in service for twelve years. Available data indicates that the unit is out of order, and was possibly involved in the corruption of the Aurora network.
313 has always shown a satisfactory performance during its career, however, there were concerns about its unusually high aggression potential. As one of the few AUs, 313 was awarded the medal of honor. After the bridge crew fell during the Battle of Horus IV, it assumed command of the Valhalla. Without this fast action, the battleship would have been lost."
[2]
Non-canon warning: Non-canonical information ends here.
In-game model for the first form of AU 313.
On the G.F.S. Valhalla, there is a Key Code terminal in the final room of the station that displays a message from the invasion of the Valhalla. This message can only be seen by entering the code "78356". This code can be seen on a PDA device belonging to a deceased Federation Marine in the same room. The Aurora Unit 313 describes how the Federation were unable to repel the attacks of the Space Pirates upon the ship, and how 313 was forcefully taken from the Valhalla. Near the end of the transmission, 313's voice fades, as it is somehow shut down. With its last words it reveals the Pirate's intentions for stealing the Aurora Unit:
"Data log entry 2467.3. This will be the last communication of the G.F.S. Valhalla. Our efforts to repel the Space Pirate boarding force have failed. They have successfully removed the primary mounting structure around our stasis tank. It is obvious now that they intend to extract us from the Valhalla. It is vital that the Federation receive this transmission. ...Severing main power... A large bioform is creating a wormhole... ...Implant into... Sentient planet which is the source of all Phazon. ...Darkness coming."
Samus damages 313's extended drone.


