http---metroid.wikia.com-wiki-Biologic_Space_Laboratories_research_station.txt
The Biologic Space Laboratories research station.
The Biologic Space Laboratories research station was a large research station orbiting the planet SR388 in its solar system. Its purpose was to research various life forms from an untold number of planets in each habitat. The vessel was operated by Biologic Space Laboratories. [1] It is the setting for Metroid Fusion.
There are some signs that the B.S.L. has some relationship to or is possibly a recreation of the BOTTLE SHIP of Metroid: Other M, as many of the specimens onboard (noticeably Nightmare and Ridley) were transferred to make their reappearance in Metroid Fusion. Unlike the BOTTLE SHIP, which had the purpose of bioweapon production, the BSL seems to have been designed mainly (if not entirely) for research and peaceful application only.
Complete Map of the BSL Station: [2]
The BSL station had many unique creatures captured from SR388 and Zebes and possibly other planets, as well as transferred specimens from the BOTTLE SHIP.
The BSL research station appears to have been a hollowed-out asteroid with a docking ring around the widest portion of the asteroid.
Here is a simple overview of the different parts of the station:
Main Deck
Sector 1 (SRX)
Sector 2 (TRO)
Sector 3 (PYR)
Sector 4 (AQA)
Sector 5 (ARC)
Sector 6 (NOC)
Restricted Zone
While the Main Deck held facilities related the station's operations and the living quarters for the scientists, Sector 1 represented the ideal Metroid breeding environment from SR388, and the other sectors represented different environmental climates: desert/volcanic, forest/tropical, aquatic/seabed, ice/arctic, nocturnal/cave. Accordingly, each sector housed different species. Sectors 2 to 6 were simply stereotypical habitat patterns used to research creatures from different planets, unlike Sector 1's strict replication of a single planet's ecosystem.
When Samus Aran was attacked by an X Parasite on SR388, she was transported to Galactic Federation HQ. There, her Power Suit was surgically removed and transported to the research station. However, while in the Quarantine Bay, the infected pieces of her Power Suit formed together to create the SA-X. The SA-X used a Power Bomb to escape the Quarantine Bay, releasing all the X the scientists had unwittingly brought onto the station in the process. As a result, everyone aboard the station and all the creatures were infected, save for a small group of Etecoons and Dachoras.
Samus, having been provided with a new gunship and the Fusion Suit, was sent to investigate the explosion. She soon learned the fate of every living thing aboard the station and subsequently set out to exterminate the X, even if it required her to destroy the station and herself.
As Samus explored the station, she came across a Restricted Laboratory. Here, she learned that the Galactic Federation had been using the station for a secret Metroid breeding program. However, an SA-X, as the original had asexually reproduced into several copies, managed to lock down the lab and cause it to self-destruct, ultimately destroying the program.
Samus soon found out that the Galactic Federation planned on using the X for military purposes. However, she is strongly against this as she knew how dangerous they were. Her ship's computer tried to stop Samus by locking her in a Navigation Room. Samus demands to be let out, but the computer had its orders to keep her from destroying the station, so the Federation could arrive. When she mistakenly called the computer Adam, her private name for the computer, it awakens to the fact that it is the real Adam Malkovich, Samus's late commanding officer. Adam agreed that the X are too dangerous, and he devised a plan to ram the station into SR388 using the station's propulsion system, killing all the X on board the vessel and on the planet to rid the universe of their existence. Samus set the station to crash into SR388. As Samus leaves the station after confronting both an SA-X and an Omega Metroid, it crashed into SR388, destroying the research station, the planet, and the entire X species.
"The six-sector Biologic Space Labs research station was designed to hold specimens in self-sustaining ecosystems mimicking those of the organisms' native planets. Even extreme conditions, ranging from a planet's molten core to sub-arctic temperatures, can be replicated."
Notice the lack of the last period.



