http---metroid.wikia.com-wiki-Zero_Suit_Samus.txt
Zero Suit Samus refers to Samus Aran when she is wearing her Zero Suit. The name "Zero Suit Samus" was coined in Super Smash Bros. Brawl, in which Samus appears as a playable character with and without her Power Suit. Zero Suit Samus is playable in Metroid: Zero Mission and Metroid: Other M, and in Brawl and Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U.
Zero Suit Samus also makes non-playable appearances in the Special Endings of Metroid Prime Hunters, Metroid Prime 2: Echoes and Metroid Prime 3: Corruption, as well as the intro of Corruption.
The Art Folio preorder bonus for the game utilizes the name "Zero Suit Samus" for the first time outside the context of Super Smash Bros.
"When my Power Suit is deactivated, my Zero Suit is the outfit of choice. In the rare moments when my equipment malfunctions, this is all I have to rely on - fortunately, the streamlined design enables acrobatic movement and the Paralyzer is all that I need to get me out of tight spots."

Zero Suit Samus' introduction snapshot in The Subspace Emissary
In Super Smash Bros. Brawl, Zero Suit Samus is a playable character. After Samus uses her Final Smash, the Zero Laser, her Power Suit falls off, leaving her in only the Zero Suit. The respective shield button on the player's controller can also be held on the character selection screen, to trigger Zero Suit Samus starting instead. Zero Suit Samus' functions as a separate fighter with her own armament and combat style, in much the same way that Princess Zelda has an alter-ego, Sheik, with different moves. As in the Metroid games, Zero Suit Samus is more vulnerable, but also quicker and more maneuverable. She carries her emergency pistol, now named the Paralyzer. Created for Brawl is a Plasma Whip capability with the Paralyzer which she can use as both attacks and tether recoveries, acting as a replacement of the Grapple Beam she would use with her Power Suit. Additionally, her down move, Flip Jump, involves her springing off the ground, and she can kick opponents dealing high damage. When Zero Suit Samus emerges, the pieces of her Power Suit lying on the ground can be picked up and thrown at other fighters. Zero Suit Samus' Final Smash is Power Suit Samus. Resembling the Crystal Flash (though it does not heal Samus in any way), the move drags in nearby enemies and blasts them away with damage. When the attack is finished, the Power Suit is restored.
In Adventure Mode: The Subspace Emissary, Samus is first seen breaking into the base of the Subspace Army in her Zero Suit form. She comes across Pikachu being drained of its electrical power, and frees it out of compassion, summoning a security force of R.O.B.s. Pikachu assists Samus in her search out of gratitude. Later, she comes across her Power Suit, but is confronted by two Shadow Bug clones mimicking her Power Suit. After their defeat she is able to recover her Power Suit and uses it by default in later levels, but it is possible to switch between forms when desired. Once the level is cleared the player can choose either form at will in cleared levels and levels that allow the player to choose any character. Her name on the character select screen is misspelled "Zaro Suit Samus".
Here is a list of Zero Suit Samus' moves.
Zero Suit Samus, like most Brawl characters, has unused sound effects for hits at high damage percentages.[1] She also had an unused trophy, kneeling with the Paralyzer, and was intended to have a unique victory theme, like Meta Knight.[2]
Metroid: Zero Mission
Super Smash Bros. Brawl
Zero Suit Samus was not revealed in the début trailer despite the appearance of the Zero Laser. A Nintendo Direct presentation on April 8, 2014 confirmed Zero Suit Samus as returning. The April 8 date coincided with the European release of Zero Mission in 2004. Characters capable of changing forms (Zelda, Samus and Pokemon Trainer) no longer transform and are now separate characters, so Zero Suit Samus is selectable independently from her suited self, and the Zero Laser no longer destroys her Power Suit.
Like the suited Samus, Zero Suit Samus' appearance is an amalgamation of all of her physical appearances. She takes the Zero Suit design and beauty mark from Other M, along with a similar face, but retains her blue eyes, taller and athletic build and hairstyle from Zero Mission and Brawl, though with the Other M bangs. Her kick and fist attacks have been augmented with Jet Boots and metal bracelets.
Replacing Plasma Wire as her recovery is Boost Kick, and her new Final Smash is an attack with her Gunship. She jumps into it and fires twin lasers at opponents in a first-person view similar to the Dragoon item and Snake's Final Smash. The Gunship is also part of her new entrance, where she jumps down from it as it flies away. Zero Suit Samus is shorter in height in the fourth games than in Brawl.
On the Boxing Ring stage in Wii U, each character has their own title in the background. Zero Suit Samus is The Warrior Within. In the UK version, it is Low Armour, High Agility.
Zero Suit Samus' amiibo was released on June 11, 2015 in Japan, June 26th in Europe, and September 11th in North America.
Zero Suit Samus Series: Super Smash Bros. Release Date: September 2015 "Samus™ is far from helpless when her Power Suit is deactivated. With her Zero Suit, she doesn’t have the firepower she's famed for but is in full possession of the agility and athleticism she gained through her childhood training with the Chozo. Without the armor, she's also much, much faster. The weapon she carries is a self-protection device known as a Paralyzer that stops enemies cold."
Non-canon warning: Non-canonical information ends here.
Non-canon warning: Non-canonical information ends here.

