http://metroid.wikia.com/wiki/Nintendo_3DS
The Nintendo 3DS (ニンテンドー3DS, Nintendō Surī Dī Esu?) is the new, refined successor of the Nintendo DS, released in February and March 2011. It has the option to play its native titles in normal 2-D and in a glassesless 3-D mode. It is also backwards compatible with most DS and DSiWare titles.
A stereoscopic version of Metroid appeared as an "interactive but nonplayable demo" called Classic Games, among 16 other "remakes" for the 3DS at E3 2010.[5] A second demo showed various 3D models of Nintendo characters with a real-time camera controlled by the new Slide Pad, including Samus Aran as she is seen in Metroid: Other M. [6][7] It was later revealed that these are puzzle pieces that can be unlocked to create a picture of the character, and it is possible to look at them in 3-D and pan around them.[8] Dead or Alive: Dimensions features the Geothermal Power Plant from Metroid: Other M, made into an arena with Ridley serving as a stage hazard. Samus also makes an appearance using the Morph Ball and Power Bomb, but, while making an appearance, is confirmed not to be a playable character.
In addition to the Nintendo 3DS software, it is backwards compatible with most DS and DSiWare titles, such as Metroid Prime Hunters, Metroid Prime Hunters: First Hunt and Metroid Prime Pinball — but like the Nintendo DSi, it is incompatible with DS software that requires the use of the Game Boy Advance port. Nintendo DS and DSi software cannot be played with 3D visuals on the 3DS. The original DS resolutions are displayed in a scaled and stretched fashion because the resolutions of the 3DS screens are larger than those of the DS. However, if the user holds down the Start or Select buttons upon launching the DS software, the displays will be at the DS's native resolution, albeit smaller with black borders.[9]
Metroid Prime: Federation Force was announced for Nintendo 3DS at E3 2015 to be released in 2016. It is a first-person shooter-sports spinoff that focuses on the Federation Marines. It is the first Metroid game where Samus is not the main protagonist, but she is slated to appear.
AR Cards allow players to take pictures of posed characters with 3D camera. Includes sound effects for each respective character. Samus' plays Samus Aran's Appearance Fanfare.
On June 6, 2011, Nintendo launched the Virtual Console service for the Nintendo 3DS on its Nintendo eShop. Similar to the Wii's Virtual Console service, it currently offers games from the Game Boy. One of its games is Metroid II: Return of Samus, currently available for all regions.
Because the 3DS has lowered its price, Nintendo has rewarded consumers that have already purchased the 3DS for $250 with the Ambassador program, which provided 20 free games for download to those who had used the eShop before August 12. On September 1, ten free NES games were given to the Ambassadors. One of one of them was the original Metroid. Considering the 25th anniversary this year, Metroid Fusion was made exclusively available to the Ambassadors in 2011, along with nine other free GBA games. While the NES games were released for sale to the general public at a later time (Ambassadors can receive the updated versions for free), the GBA games have only been made available to the Ambassadors.


