http://en.touhouwiki.net/wiki/Team_Shanghai_Alice
Team Shanghai Alice (上海アリス幻樂団 or 上海アリス幻楽団, Shanhai Arisu Gengakudan, lit. "Shanghai Alice Fantasy Band", formerly known as ZUN Soft) is a Japanese doujin game developer that specialises in shoot 'em up by one man called ZUN. The circle's only releases thus far have been the Touhou Project games and related merchandises.
Before its independence, ZUN was creating Touhou games for the PC-98 with the help of Amusement Makers, under the name ZUN Soft. After the PC-98 finished and his involvement with the Seihou Project by what is now known as "Shunsatsu sare do?", he branched apart from Amusement Makers and continued to develop games for the Touhou Project under the name of "Team Shanghai Alice", starting with Embodiment of Scarlet Devil. Every game TSA has developed from its creation has been a shoot 'em up of some kind, and currently it seems only to specialize in making danmaku shooting games. The only time it ever developed any other game type was when it collaborated with Twilight Frontier, which resulted in five projectile-based fighting games.
The name "Team Shanghai Alice" was chosen to fit the overall theme of the Touhou Project. "Shanghai" (上海), according to ZUN, is a multicultural city where the East and the West meet. "Alice" can be a child living in the foreign concessions, but the name "Alice" also suggests a fairy-tale element. So together, "Shanghai Alice" encompasses the blend of oriental and western aesthetics along with fantasy. As for "Fantasy Band" (幻樂団), ZUN originally intended his team to be a musical ensemble, so he named his team as such.
Additionally, there's a character called Alice Margatroid, who's got a doll called Shanghai. Hong Meiling's got a theme song called "Shanghai Alice of Meiji 17".
According to an Interview in Swedish Player1 Magazine, ZUN is the only member of Team Shanghai Alice. In other words, ZUN does the programming, art, and music entirely all alone.
Team Shanghai Alice have released a number of albums that include both music arranged from the games and music original to the album. Most soundtracks are mainly composed by ZUN synthesised original music and tracks remixed from his games, but there are several works that are made by the collaboration between him and Twilight Frontier. As there are some loose references to the rest of the Touhou Project in the stories in the CD jacket, the CDs are still considered part of the Touhou Project.

