http://en.touhouwiki.net/wiki/Phantasmagoria_of_Flower_View
Team Shanghai Alice
Team Shanghai Alice
Trial+: May 4, 2005 Trial: June 12, 2005 Full: August 14, 2005
Competitive Vertical Danmaku Shooting Game
Single-player Story Mode, Human vs. Human Match (Shared screen, LAN, Online), Human vs. Computer AI Match, Computer AI vs. Computer AI Match
Windows 98/ME/2000/XP
Touhou Kaeidzuka (Flower Viewing Mound) ~ Phantasmagoria of Flower View (東方花映塚　～ Phantasmagoria of Flower View) is a danmaku vertical-scrolling shooter, and the ninth official game in the Touhou Project.
This game is a split-screen vertical danmaku shooting game where two characters engage in the normal Touhou-esque gameplay, while unleashing attacks and character-specific spell cards onto the other player, similar to that of Phantasmagoria of Dim.Dream. When a player gets hit enough times to lose all their hit points, they are defeated.
The game features a Story Mode, which pits the player against a series of nine opponents that get progressively harder, and a versus mode, which is a single match against either an AI opponent or a human opponent(or, two AI opponents). With the netplay patch, multiplayer is also possible through LAN or over the Internet.
Phantasmagoria of Flower View was designed to be a game much along the same lines as Phantasmagoria of Dim.Dream, and, by extension Twinkle Star Sprites, where two players simultaneously engage in normal shmup-fashion gameplay but also must concentrate on attacking the other player.
This game takes place in the mystical land of Gensokyo. Spring has arrived, but something is wrong. Flowers are blooming and the fairies are becoming active as usual, but the amount of flowers and fairies is unnatural; even non-spring flowers are blooming. Playing as one of 16 characters, you must battle your way through 9 stages to reach Muenzuka and uncover the truth behind the abnormal spring.
Phantasmagoria of Flower View features 19 separate music tracks. However, a number of character-specific themes were simply brought over from other games. Youmu Konpaku's theme "Eastern Mystic Dream ~ Ancient Temple" (東方妖々夢　～ Ancient Temple), Reisen Udongein Inaba's theme "Lunatic Eyes ~ Invisible Full Moon" (狂気の瞳　～ Invisible Full Moon), and the Prismriver Sisters' theme "Ghostly Band ~ Phantom Ensemble" (幽霊楽団　～ Phantom Ensemble) have all been lightly arranged for this game. In addition, Cirno's theme "Tomboyish Girl in Love" (おてんば恋娘) and Mystia Lorelei's theme "Deaf to All but the Song" (もう歌しか聞こえない) have been rearranged into "Adventure of the Lovestruck Tomboy" (おてんば恋娘の冒険) and "Deaf to All but the Song ~ Flower Mix" (もう歌しか聞こえない　～ Flower Mix), respectively, in order to fit the theme of the game better.
"Wind God Girl" (風神少女), a song that was originally released in the Bohemian Archive in Japanese Red artbook, was included in this game in a shorter form, as ZUN considered the original to be too long for a game like this.
"Higan Retour ~ Riverside View" (彼岸帰航　～ Riverside View) and "White Flag of Usa Shrine" (お宇佐さまの素い幡) were both rearranged for one of ZUN's CDs, Retrospective 53 minutes. "Higan Retour ~ Riverside View" also was arranged for Scarlet Weather Rhapsody. Lastly, Eiki Shiki's theme "Eastern Judgement in the Sixtieth Year ~ Fate of Sixty Years" (六十年目の東方裁判　～ Fate of Sixty Years) was featured in the music CD released with Seasonal Dream Vision. Though, the CD was not released by Team Shanghai Alice but by Tora no Ana.
Phantasmagoria of Flower View was originally announced on April 1, 2005. A trial was soon released at Reitaisai 2 that May, and the web version of the trial was released the month after that. The full game was released at Comiket 68, three days after the release of Bohemian Archive in Japanese Red.
An unofficial patch that improved netplay compatibility was released afterwards, and an English patch version, as well as a modified version of the netplay tool Adonis, was released at a later date.

